Police Quest: In Pursuit of the Death Angel - Wikipedia

Jump to content

Main menu

Main menu

move to sidebar

hide

Navigation

Main page

Contents

Current events

Random article

About Wikipedia

Contact us

Contribute

Help

Learn to edit

Community portal

Recent changes

Upload file

Special pages

Search

Search

Appearance

Donate

Create account

Log in

Personal tools

Donate

Create account

Log in

Contents

move to sidebar

hide

(Top)

1

Gameplay

2

Plot

3

Development

4

Reception

5

References

6

External links

Toggle the table of contents

Police Quest: In Pursuit of the Death Angel

8 languages

Deutsch

Español

Suomi

Français

Italiano

Ladin

Nederlands

Svenska

Edit links

Article

Talk

English

Read

Edit

View history

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar

hide

Actions

Read

Edit

View history

General

What links here

Related changes

Upload file

Permanent link

Page information

Cite this page

Get shortened URL

Download QR code

Print/export

Download as PDF

Printable version

In other projects

Wikidata item

Appearance

move to sidebar

hide

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

1987 video game

1987 video game

Police Quest: In Pursuit of the Death Angel

Cover art for the 1987 version

Developer

Sierra On-Line

Publisher

Sierra On-Line

Designer

Jim Walls

Programmers

Al Lowe

Greg Rowland

Ken Williams

Scott Murphy

Artists

Mark Crowe

Gerald Moore

Writer

Jim Walls

Composer

Margaret Lowe

Series

Police Quest

Engine

AGI  / SCI1.1 (Remake)

Platforms

Amiga

Atari ST

Apple II

Apple IIGS

MS-DOS

Mac

Release  November 1987

&#91; 1 &#93;

( AGI ) 1992 ( SCI )

Genres

Adventure ,  simulation

Mode

Single-player

Police Quest: In Pursuit of the Death Angel

(also known as

Police Quest I

or simply

Police Quest  ) is a 1987  police procedural

adventure

video game  developed and published by  Jim Walls  and  Sierra On-Line .  Police Quest  follows police officer Sonny Bonds as he investigates a  drug cartel  in the town of  Lytton, California .

First released in 1987 as a  command-line interface  game built on Sierra's  AGI ,  Police Quest  was remade in 1992 using 256-color  VGA  graphics and the  SCI  engine and used  point-and-click  gameplay. Designed to effectively be a  police

simulator ,  Police Quest  features relatively simple puzzles, but relies strongly on strict adherence to proper police procedure, as detailed in the  game's manual .

Police Quest  was a moderate critical and commercial success, spawning the successful

Police Quest

series, which later evolved into the  SWAT  series of  shooter games . A direct sequel,

Police Quest II: The Vengeance  , was released in 1988.

Gameplay

[

edit

]

The player is required to follow proper police procedures (Atari ST screenshot).

Police Quest: In Pursuit of The Death Angel  is an adventure game in which gameplay is centered on interacting with the environment to resolve a series of scenarios. These largely revolve around typical police work, such as securing  crime scenes  and recovering  stolen vehicles , while following proper duty procedures. The original release of the game required the player to type in the desired actions, such as opening doors, pressing buttons, or firing one's gun. In contrast, the remake allows the player to use the mouse to select actions from a menu and interact with objects in the environment.

The game is the most realistic of those developed by Sierra in the late 1980s (when compared to

Leisure Suit Larry  ,

King's Quest  , or

Space Quest  ). The lack of "traditional" puzzles made the game stand out at the time of release. Unlike many games of this genre, the style of play depends mainly on a strict adherence to standard police policy and procedure.

&#91; 2 &#93;

Proper policy must be followed and individual actions must be performed in order (e.g., Sonny must draw and aim his  sidearm  before firing, or he will shoot himself in the leg). Failure to abide by proper procedure typically leads to the player being penalized points or having Sonny killed; for example, if Sonny does not store his sidearm in a gun locker while processing a suspect at the  jail , the suspect will immediately steal it and shoot him, resulting in a  game over .

Plot

[

edit

]

In the mid-1980s (early 1990s in the remake), the city of Lytton, California, experiences a rise in crime, most prominently drug abuse. Officer Sonny Bonds of the Lytton Police Department is assigned to  traffic duty  by his supervisor, Sergeant Dooley, and is told to look out for a stolen black  Cadillac  ( Mercedes-Benz  in the remake).

During his patrol, Bonds responds to a  single-vehicle accident  and finds the driver of the crashed car, drug dealer Lonny West, dead of a gunshot wound to the head. Bonds hands over the investigation to Sergeant Dooley and returns to patrol, ticketing a speeding motorist, handling a situation involving bikers who are troubling a bar, and arresting a drunk driver. At the bar, Sonny encounters "Sweet Cheeks" Marie Wilkans, a  prostitute  who was once his high school crush, who supplies him with information on a violent drug ring infiltrating the city. After his shift ends, Bonds visits The Blue Room, a café frequented by off-duty police officers, where he talks with Officer Jack Cobb about Cobb's daughter Kathy, who is addicted to drugs. The next day, Bonds locates the stolen Cadillac/Mercedes-Benz (now painted light blue) and, with help from Cobb, arrests the driver, Marvin Hoffman. Bonds finds drugs in the trunk of the car and a  .45 Smith & Wesson  handgun on Taselli, linking him to West's murder.

Due to his work on the case, Bonds is promoted to  detective , assigned to the Narcotics Division, and partnered with Detective Laura Watts. Investigating Lytton's drug epidemic, Bonds uncovers that Hoffman is actually Jason Taselli, a drug dealer on the  FBI 's  Most Wanted List , which scores him a no-bail warrant from the city judge. Later, Bonds and Watts arrest Kathy's dealer, Donald Colby, during a stakeout, but Bonds learns from Cobb that Kathy has fallen into an  overdose -induced  coma  with little chance of recovery. He also learns Taselli has escaped from jail, but patrol officers later find his body in the river. Bonds identifies the cause of the drug crisis as Jessie Bains (Jesse Bains in the remake), nicknamed "The Death Angel", a  drug lord  who is involved in an illegal gambling operation at the Hotel Delphoria. Learning that Kathy has died, Bonds silently vows to bring Bains to justice.

Bonds goes undercover to infiltrate the gambling ring at the Hotel Delphoria, enlisting the assistance of Marie. He is taken to a  card game  with Frank Magpie and his friends, where he manages to gain their trust. Bonds is invited to Magpie's penthouse suite, where he reveals himself to be Jesse Bains. Summoned by a phone call, Bains leaves the room and Sonny calls the Narcotics Division for backup. Returning, Bains has discovered Bonds' true identity, but before he can kill him, a backup team arrives and shoots Bains.

&#91; 3 &#93;

Bains survives and is arrested, tried, and convicted of multiple crimes for a 97-year prison sentence, while Bonds is awarded the  Key to the City  for his work and falls in love with Marie.

Development

[

edit

]

Before  Police Quest  ' s conception, Sierra president  Ken Williams  wanted to develop a police adventure game, preferably with an actual police officer serving as a  technical advisor , overseeing the game's design to ensure authenticity and realism. In 1985, Williams met  California Highway Patrol  (CHP) officer  Jim Walls , who was on  administrative leave  to treat trauma he had received from a shooting a year prior. Following Walls' retirement from the CHP in 1986, Williams befriended Walls and asked if he could write a  short story  about his experiences in the CHP; this short story eventually developed into  Police Quest  ' s plot.

&#91; 4 &#93;

Development commenced after Walls' story grew enough to be partitioned into a design document and game components for development. The game's designers were Williams, Walls,  Roberta Williams ,  Mark Crowe ,  Scott Murphy , and  Al Lowe . At the time, Walls was unfamiliar with computers, so the other Sierra developers assisted him until he could develop on his own.

&#91; 4 &#93;

The game's protagonist, Sonny Bonds, was loosely based on Walls' son (also named Sonny), and many incidents in the game were based on actual incidents encountered by Walls during his time in the CHP.

Police Quest  was released for the  IBM PC ,  Apple II  (128K),  Amiga ,  Atari ST , and  Apple IIGS . An  SCI  1.1 enhanced version in 256-color VGA was released in 1992.

Between October 25 and October 27, 2022,  digital historian  and  archivist

Jason Scott  uploaded the  source code  of  Police Quest  to  GitHub  as a means of  video game preservation . Several other Sierra games were preserved by Scott in that period, including

Donald Duck's Playground  ,

The Black Cauldron  ,

King's Quest III  ,

Leisure Suit Larry in the Land of the Lounge Lizards

(and its VGA remake),

Leisure Suit Larry Goes Looking for Love (in Several Wrong Places)  ,

Leisure Suit Larry III: Passionate Patti in Pursuit of the Pulsating Pectorals  , and

Leisure Suit Larry 5: Passionate Patti Does a Little Undercover Work  .

&#91; 5 &#93;

Reception

[

edit

]

The first four  Police Quest  games totaled 850,000 sales by late 1995. However, Markus Krichel of

PC Games

noted that "interest on the part of the gamer fell slightly" with

Police Quest: Open Season  , which led Sierra On-Line to experiment with a new direction for the series with

Police Quest: SWAT  .

&#91; 6 &#93;

According to Sierra, combined sales of the entire  Police Quest  series (including  SWAT ) surpassed 1.2 million units by the end of March 1996.

&#91; 7 &#93;

Computer Gaming World

recommended  Police Quest , praising some of the graphics as "the most terrific this reviewer has ever seen".

&#91; 8 &#93;

Antic

said of the ST version that because of the realism and need to follow procedures "there is a strong sense of actually becoming the cop on the beat".

&#91; 9 &#93;

Macworld

was less positive, stating that the game "plays like a long version of a routine cop TV show, and you can't lose if you just follow the manual. The game begs for a challenging mystery".

&#91; 10 &#93;

Police Quest  was reported to have been used as a training tool for police officers.

&#91; 11 &#93;

References

[

edit

]

^

"Sierra On-Line OTC Standard Stock Report"

(PDF) . Sierra On-Line. 1989 . Retrieved  July 12,  2025 .

^

Rubenking, Neil (March 29, 1988).  "Be Careful Out There: Police Quest Plays It By The Book" .  PC Mag  . Retrieved  June 29,  2017 .

^

"Adventure Classic Gaming"  . Retrieved  July 1,  2007 .

^

a

b

Walls, James.  "Rap Sheet - Jim Walls Reloaded"  . Retrieved  May 14,  2019 .

^

"historicalsource - Overview" .  GitHub  . Retrieved  May 20,  2023 .

^

Krichel, Markus (November 1995). "Spezialeinheit".

PC Games  : 40, 41.

^

Sierra On-Line Form 10-K  (Report).  Bellevue, Washington . March 31, 1996. pp.&#160; 7– 9. Archived from  the original  on April 16, 2018.

^

Chaut, Michael S. (April 1988). "Dusting the Death Angel".  Computer Gaming World . p.&#160;22.

^

Teverbaugh, Rick (July 1988).  "ST Games Gallery: Hunt For Red October, Arctic Fox, Oids, Police Quest, Space Quest II, Slaygon, Beyond Zork" .  Antic  . Retrieved  May 9,  2020 .

^

McCandless, Keith (March 1989).  "Animated Adventure Games" .  Macworld . p.&#160;183 . Retrieved  August 20,  2016 .

^

DeBaun, Rich (Winter 1992). "Police Quest: In Pursuit of the Death Angel".  InterAction . Vol.&#160;5, no.&#160;4. Sierra On-Line. p.&#160;35.  [ Police Quest ] has proven to be a practical, effective training tool officers enjoy using. It safely demonstrates to rookies the consequences of failing to observe proper police procedures and can serve as a valuable refresher course for experienced officers.

External links

[

edit

]

Police Quest: In Pursuit of the Death Angel

at  MobyGames

v

t

e

Police Quest / SWAT

Games

In Pursuit of the Death Angel

II: The Vengeance

III: The Kindred

Open Season

SWAT

SWAT 2

SWAT 3: Close Quarters Battle

SWAT: Global Strike Team

SWAT 4

SWAT Force

SWAT: Target Liberty

SWAT Elite Troops

Related

Jim Walls

Daryl Gates

Sierra Entertainment

Blue Force

v

t

e

Adventure games developed by  Sierra Entertainment

Hi-Res Adventures

Mystery House

Wizard and the Princess

Mission Asteroid

Cranston Manor

Ulysses and the Golden Fleece

Time Zone

The Dark Crystal

King's Quest

I

II

III

IV

V

VI

VII

Mask of Eternity

Space Quest

I

II

III

IV

V

6

Leisure Suit Larry

Land of the Lounge Lizards

Looking for Love (in Several Wrong Places)

III: Passionate Patti in Pursuit of the Pulsating Pectorals

5: Passionate Patti Does a Little Undercover Work

6: Shape Up or Slip Out!

Love for Sail!

Police Quest

In Pursuit of the Death Angel

II: The Vengeance

III: The Kindred

Open Season

SWAT

Quest for Glory

So You Want to Be a Hero

II: Trial by Fire

III: Wages of War

Shadows of Darkness

V: Dragon Fire

Gabriel Knight

Sins of the Fathers

The Beast Within

3: Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned

Sierra Discovery Series

Mixed-Up

Mixed-Up Mother Goose

Mixed-Up Fairy Tales

Dr. Brain

Castle of Dr. Brain

The Island of Dr. Brain

The Lost Mind of Dr. Brain

The Time Warp of Dr. Brain

EcoQuest

The Search for Cetus

Lost Secret of the Rainforest

Other

Quarky & Quaysoo's Turbo Science

Pepper's Adventures in Time

Slater & Charlie Go Camping

Other series

Disney

Donald Duck's Playground

Mickey's Space Adventure

Winnie the Pooh in the Hundred Acre Wood

The Black Cauldron

Conquests

Conquests of Camelot

Conquests of the Longbow

Laura Bow

The Colonel's Bequest

The Dagger of Amon Ra

Phantasmagoria

Phantasmagoria

A Puzzle of Flesh

Shivers

Shivers

Shivers II: Harvest of Souls

Published titles

Sunnyside Soft

Dragon's Keep

Troll's Tale

Evryware

Manhunter: New York

Manhunter 2: San Francisco

Dynamix

Rise of the Dragon

Heart of China

The Adventures of Willy Beamish

Space Quest V

Rama

Coktel Vision

Gobliiins

Gobliiins

Gobliins 2: The Prince Buffoon

Goblins Quest 3

Inca

Inca

Inca II: Wiracocha

Other

The Prophecy

Lost in Time

Playtoons

The Bizarre Adventures of Woodruff and the Schnibble

The Last Dynasty

Urban Runner

Other developers

Softporn Adventure

Sammy Lightfoot

Stay Tooned!

Stand-alone titles

Gold Rush!

Codename: ICEMAN

Freddy Pharkas: Frontier Pharmacist

Torin's Passage

Lighthouse: The Dark Being

Staff

Roberta Williams

Ken Williams

Al Lowe

Scott Murphy

Mark Crowe

Jim Walls

Mark Seibert

The Coles

Christy Marx

Josh Mandel

Bill Davis

Jane Jensen

Aubrey Hodges

Lorelei Shannon

Daryl F. Gates

Guy Whitmore

Eric Lengyel

Chance Thomas

Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Police_Quest:_In_Pursuit_of_the_Death_Angel&oldid=1312415275 "

Categories :

1980s interactive fiction

1987 video games

1992 video games

Adventure games

Amiga games

Apple II games

Apple IIGS games

Atari ST games

DOS games

Games commercially released with DOSBox

Police Quest and SWAT

ScummVM-supported games

Sierra Entertainment games

Single-player video games

Video games about police officers

Video games developed in the United States

Video games set in 1992

Video games set in California

Video games set in the 1980s

Hidden categories:

Articles with short description

Short description matches Wikidata

Use mdy dates from September 2025

Articles using Infobox video game using locally defined parameters

Articles using Wikidata infoboxes with locally defined images

This page was last edited on 20 September 2025, at 14:29 &#160;(UTC) .

Text is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the  Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.

Privacy policy

About Wikipedia

Disclaimers

Contact Wikipedia

Legal & safety contacts

Code of Conduct

Developers

Statistics

Cookie statement

Mobile view

Search

Search

Toggle the table of contents

Police Quest: In Pursuit of the Death Angel

8 languages

Add topic