Might and Magic II: Gates to Another World - Wikipedia

Jump to content

Main menu

Main menu

move to sidebar

hide

Navigation

Main page

Contents

Current events

Random article

About Wikipedia

Contact us

Contribute

Help

Learn to edit

Community portal

Recent changes

Upload file

Special pages

Search

Search

Appearance

Donate

Create account

Log in

Personal tools

Donate

Create account

Log in

Contents

move to sidebar

hide

(Top)

1

Gameplay

2

Release

3

Reception

4

References

5

External links

Toggle the table of contents

Might and Magic II: Gates to Another World

10 languages

Čeština

Français

Magyar

Italiano

Nederlands

Română

Русский

Svenska

Українська

中文

Edit links

Article

Talk

English

Read

Edit

View history

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar

hide

Actions

Read

Edit

View history

General

What links here

Related changes

Upload file

Permanent link

Page information

Cite this page

Get shortened URL

Download QR code

Print/export

Download as PDF

Printable version

In other projects

Wikidata item

Appearance

move to sidebar

hide

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

1988 video game

This article's  lead section

may be too short to adequately  summarize  the key points .  Please consider expanding the lead to  provide an accessible overview  of all important aspects of the article.

( August 2024 )

1988 video game

Might and Magic II: Gates to Another World

Developer

New World Computing

Publisher

New World Computing

Designers

Jon Van Caneghem

Michaela Van Caneghem

Programmers

Jon Van Caneghem  Stephen L. Cox  Mark Caldwell

Artists

Avril Harrison  Jeff Griffeath  Vincent DeQuattro

Composer

Raoul Kraushaar

Series

Might and Magic

Platforms

Apple II ,  PC-88 ,  PC-98 ,  FM-7 ,  Sharp X1 ,  X68000 ,  MS-DOS ,  Commodore 64 ,  MSX ,  Amiga ,  Mac ,  Mega Drive/Genesis ,  Super NES

Release

1988

1988 (Apple II)  1988-1990 (computer ports)  1991 (Mega Drive/Genesis)  1993 (SNES)

Genre

Role-playing video game

Mode

Single-player

Might and Magic II: Gates to Another World

(also known as

Might and Magic Book Two: Gates to Another World  ) is a  role-playing video game  developed and published by  New World Computing  in 1988. It is the sequel to

Might and Magic Book One: The Secret of the Inner Sanctum  .

Gameplay

[

edit

]

Map of Cron, drawn by Jim Krogel

After the events of

Might and Magic Book One: The Secret of the Inner Sanctum  , the adventurers who helped Corak defeat Sheltem on Varn take the "Gates to Another World" located in Varn to the land of CRON (Central Research Observational Nacelle). The land of Cron is facing many problems brought on by the encroachment of Sheltem and the adventurers must travel throughout Cron, into the four elemental planes and even through time to help Corak stop Sheltem from flinging Cron into its sun.

While in many ways  Might and Magic II  is an updated version of the original, the improved graphics help greatly with navigation, and the interface added several functions that facilitated gameplay, such as a "delay" selector which allowed for faster or slower response times, and a spinning cursor when input was required - all features lacking in  Might and Magic Book One .

As with  Might and Magic Book One , the player used up to six  player-generated characters  at a time, and a total of twenty-six characters could be created, who thereafter stayed at the various inns across Cron.  To continue game continuity it was possible to "import" the characters developed from the first game. Additionally,  Might and Magic II  became the first game in the series to utilize "hirelings", predefined characters which could extend the party to eight active characters. Hirelings were controlled like regular characters but required payment each day; pay increased with  level .

Other new features include two new  character classes , an increased number of  spells , the introduction of class "upgrade"  quests  and more than twice the number of mini-quests. Also added was "secondary skills" such as  mountaineering  (necessary for travelling mountainous regions) and linguist (raising the character's intelligence, and necessary for reading certain messages). Each character could have up to two secondary skills. The game introduced an  automap  feature to the series, activated by training a character in the cartographer skill.

Perhaps the most peculiar development in this game was the numeric scope. Character levels could reach 255 ((2 8 )-1), at which point they could train without limit, provided they had enough gold.  Hit points  could be extended as high as 65535 ((2 16 )-1) and magic points up to 9999. To nearly any item, a "+" bonus could be added via an enchantment. This "+" bonus increased the weapon's damage or attribute bonus, as in

Dungeons & Dragons  , but unlike  D&D  the ceiling on "+" bonuses was 63.  Might and Magic II  pitted the player's party against any one of 255 monsters varying from 1 hit point to 64000. Battles could consist of up to 255 opponents.

While  Might and Magic II  remained a battle-focused game, there were many puzzles to be solved, and curiosities to be discovered. There is a cave with a sex-change device, for instance, and scattered about the land are seemingly nonsensical colored messages that eventually combines into useful hints (as in the first game). Most of the quests in the game require the player to solve puzzles rather than look for the next hack and slash battle.  Time travel  was added, though its ramifications were practically nil with the exception of being necessary to fight the final boss. The taverns feature humorous culinary selections and there are various absurdities strewn about, such as the ability to get drunk off of too much ale, which would result in reduced abilities of the character. Stats can be increased at the annual circus, which requires a collection of  cupie dolls  to play the games.

A character can belong to one of eight classes. Each class has at least one prime  statistic  which a character must equal or exceed to be a member of that class. All classes other than Knights or Barbarians also have special skills or abilities. All six classes featured in  Might and Magic Book One  are available in the sequel: Knight (must defeat the Dread Knight), Paladin (must slay the Frost Dragon), Archer (must stop Baron Wilfrey), Cleric (have to reunite the soul of Corak with his body), Sorcerer (must release both the good and the evil wizards from the Isle of the Ancients), and Robber. In addition two new classes are introduced:

Ninja: Ninja are specialized Robbers, having thieving abilities to a lesser degree, plus the ability to assassinate their opponents. Ninjas must assassinate the wicked enchantress Dawn.

Barbarian: Barbarians have high hit points and reasonable fighting abilities, though a limited selection of weapons and armour. Barbarians must kill the barbarian chieftain Brutal Bruno.

There are many aspects of this game which were not standard for RPGs of the time. Characters aging during gameplay, and when reaching old age (~75) they would die randomly due to natural causes. The spell that reverses this process usually fails, resulting in increasing the character's age as opposed to decreasing it. However, paying a visit to a health spa on a resort isle can reduce the character's age. The ability to travel into the past, specifically nine different centuries, although only two of them seemed relevant to the main story and two to a sidequest. Class-specific quests and class-restricted areas, forcing the player to split up the party, or use different combinations of characters. In a departure from the  high fantasy  flavour typical for RPGs, the last dungeon requires the player characters to board a spaceship and solve an  encrypted message  with a time limit in order to escape the planet.

Release

[

edit

]

Might and Magic II  was ported to 14 different systems: five Western home computers, six Japanese home computers, and three gaming consoles.

In particular, two ports for the Super Nintendo were developed by two separate teams: one exclusive for the Japanese SNES and a different one exclusive for the European SNES.

Reception

[

edit

]

Dragon

reviewers gave the game 4 out of 5 stars,

&#91; 1 &#93;

and 5 out of 5 stars for the Sega Genesis version.

&#91; 2 &#93;

Computer Gaming World

gave the game a mixed review, noting several bugs in the 1.0 version. The reviewer,  Scorpia , also lamented the simple plotline, saying, " Might & Magic II  seems to have swerved off the path in the boring " monster mash/Monty Haul " direction, where ever-more-powerful characters with ever-more-powerful weapons fight ever-more-powerful monsters until it all escalates into the realm of the ludicrous."

&#91; 3 &#93;

Van Caneghem later got revenge on Scorpia by naming a monster after her in the sequel. In 1991 the magazine also reviewed the Sega Genesis version, stating that while easy to play and with excellent graphics, the overemphasis on combat made the game "workmanlike" and "airless".

&#91; 4 &#93;

In 1993 Scorpia stated that  Might & Magic II  was "not as good as the previous game on many counts (...) only for the devoted hack and slash crowd".

&#91; 5 &#93;

In 1991,

PC Format

placed  Might and Magic II  on its list of the 50 best computer games of all time.

&#91; 6 &#93;

References

[

edit

]

^

Lesser, Hartley; Lesser, Patricia; Lesser, Kirk (June 1989). "The Role of Computers".  Dragon  (146):  68– 79.

^

Lesser, Hartley; Lesser, Patricia; Lesser, Kirk (November 1991). "The Role of Computers".  Dragon  (175):  57– 66.

^

Scorpia (March 1989).  "Might & Magic II" .

Computer Gaming World  . No.&#160;57. pp.&#160; 28– 29, 50.

^

Olafson, Peter (October 1991).  "  "Console"ing Your Imagination With the Might and Magic of a Faery Tale Adventure" .  Computer Gaming World . No.&#160;87. pp.&#160; 68– 70 . Retrieved  18 November  2013 .

^

Scorpia (October 1993).  "Scorpia's Magic Scroll Of Games" .  Computer Gaming World . pp.&#160; 34– 50 . Retrieved  25 March  2016 .

^

"The 50 best games ever!".

PC Format

(1):  109– 111. October 1991.

External links

[

edit

]

Might and Magic II: Gates to Another World

at  MobyGames

v

t

e

Might and Magic

List of media

Category

Original series

I: The Secret of the Inner Sanctum

II: Gates to Another World

III: Isles of Terra

IV: Clouds of Xeen

V: Darkside of Xeen

VI: The Mandate of Heaven

VII: For Blood and Honor

VIII: Day of the Destroyer

IX

X: Legacy

Spin-offs

Arcomage

Crusaders

Warriors

Legends

Shifters

Mobile

Dark Messiah

Clash of Heroes

Heroes of Might and Magic

I: A Strategic Quest

II: The Succession Wars

The Price of Loyalty

III: The Restoration of Erathia

Armageddon's Blade

The Shadow of Death

Chronicles

IV

V

Hammers of Fate

Tribes of the East

VI

VII

Olden Era

Heroes  spin-offs

Heroes of Might and Magic  (Game Boy Color)

Quest for the Dragon Bone Staff

Heroes of Might and Magic IV  card game

Online

Heroes Kingdoms

Heroes Online

Related

Jon Van Caneghem

David Mullich

Gregory Fulton

King's Bounty

Dragon Rage

Songs of Conquest

Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Might_and_Magic_II:_Gates_to_Another_World&oldid=1315582026 "

Categories :

1988 video games

Amiga games

Apple II games

Classic Mac OS games

Commodore 64 games

DOS games

First-person party-based dungeon crawler video games

FM-7 games

Games commercially released with DOSBox

Might and Magic

MSX2 games

NEC PC-8801 games

NEC PC-9801 games

New World Computing games

Science fantasy role-playing video games

Sega Genesis games

Sharp X1 games

Single-player video games

Super Nintendo Entertainment System games

Sequel video games

Video games about ninja

Video games about time travel

Video games developed in the United States

Video games scored by Atsuhiro Motoyama

Video games with gender-selectable protagonists

X68000 games

Hidden categories:

Articles with short description

Short description matches Wikidata

Wikipedia introduction cleanup from August 2024

All pages needing cleanup

Articles covered by WikiProject Wikify from August 2024

All articles covered by WikiProject Wikify

Articles using Infobox video game using locally defined parameters

Articles using Wikidata infoboxes with locally defined images

This page was last edited on 7 October 2025, at 13:34 &#160;(UTC) .

Text is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the  Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.

Privacy policy

About Wikipedia

Disclaimers

Contact Wikipedia

Legal & safety contacts

Code of Conduct

Developers

Statistics

Cookie statement

Mobile view

Search

Search

Toggle the table of contents

Might and Magic II: Gates to Another World

10 languages

Add topic