GameResources/SNES/KirbySuperStar - TASVideos

TASVideos

Tool-assisted game movies

When human skills are just not enough

Home

Games

Movies

Movie Classes

Publications

Submissions

User Files

Forum

Chat

Articles

Article Index

Game Resources

Emulators

Staff

About

Dark

Light

Auto

Register

Log in

Game Resources

SNES

Kirby Super Star

This page documents information about

Kirby Super Star

. Many of the tricks demonstrated here are near impossible in real time and documented for the purposes of creating  Tool-assisted Speedruns .

The purpose of this page is to document all of the known tricks
of Kirby Super Star for the SNES.

Table of contents

Fire Glitch (Japanese only)

Jet Glitch (Japanese only)

Ladder Glitch (Japanese only)

Plasma Glitch (Japanese version)

Fall Through Platforms

Have a Helper clip through the ground

About lag behavior

Tricks & Glitches to add in the future

Memory addresses

Links

Fire Glitch (Japanese only)

While performing a dashing attack in mid-air with the Fire ability, press Up and Down. This will cause Kirby to zip downwards at an enormous speed. This can be used to glitch through the floor to skip through some rooms or at the computer virus battle in order to kill yourself to skip the long sequence.

Jet Glitch (Japanese only)

While performing a dashing attack in mid-air with the Jet ability, press Up and Down. This will cause Kirby to fly diagonally upwards. This works with charged boosts too.

In order to glitch through a ceiling, fly towards the corner of a ceiling so that you just barely miss its wall. Then press "up" and "down". It does not work without a corner since the ceiling ejects Kirby downwards to a height where he can't glitch through the ceiling anymore. If it weren't for that very pixel, he could glitch through ceilings directly.

Ladder Glitch (Japanese only)

When pressing Up+Down on a ladder, it will glitch out the game, usually leading to a crash. In snes9x-rr 1.43, it sometimes would lead to the mini-boss battle in Dyna Blade but the emulation in snes9x-rr is not console accurate. The glitch has been tested on console by illayaya but it hasn't led to anything useful so far. However, Masterjun managed to use it to  finish the game quickly  by  Arbitrary Code Execution .

Plasma Glitch (Japanese version)

In order to immediately charge your attack to the maximum, hold Left and Right and press Up.

Fall Through Platforms

The mechanism of this glitch was first discovered and  explained  by OGA.

This trick works by first performing a setup which leaves either Kirby's or the helper's fall-through counter at a non-zero value. Normally the counter resets when leaving a crouch, but it can be tricked by, for example as Kirby, crouching for a single frame during a run animation. In this state, if down is held starting a few frames before hitting the platform, they will immediately fall through without landing on the platform.

The non-zero fall-through counter is maintained through death, room transitions, and other transitions. But the state is lost by falling through a platform, crouching for too long, or resetting the game.

Have a Helper clip through the ground

Have the helper grab Kirby while Kirby is floating close to the ground. At the correct frame, have the helper let go of Kirby. If done right, the helper should be inside the floor.

About lag behavior

Lag is very tedious to control in this game. The lag frames during screen transitions can be minimized by different audio output of the game (by jumping, running or using your shield before entering a door). Generally, the more action on-screen, the greater the amount of lag frames that may occur. Avoid killing enemies if possible. When using Jet, try to direct your backward fire into a wall. Do luck-manipulate enemies into not performing moves that would induce lag frames easily (such as a fire enemy spitting a fireball).

Tricks & Glitches to add in the future

Cannon glitch

Heavy Lobster skip

Skipping the first Whispy Woods in level 2 of Revenge of Metaknight

...

Memory addresses

These addresses will work for the Japanese version of the game.

Domain  Address  Size  Description

Kirby

Cartridge RAM  0988  2 bytes  X Position

Cartridge RAM  0A7D  1 byte  X Sub-position

Cartridge RAM  0A02  2 bytes  Y Position

Cartridge RAM  0AF7  1 byte  Y Sub-position

Cartridge RAM  16BF  2 bytes  X Velocity

Cartridge RAM  0BEA  2 bytes  Y Velocity

Cartridge RAM  149F  2 bytes  Ability

SA1 IRAM  03AC  2 bytes  Fall-through counter

Helper

Cartridge RAM  098A  2 bytes  X Position

Cartridge RAM  0A7F  1 byte  X Sub-position

Cartridge RAM  0A04  2 bytes  Y Position

Cartridge RAM  0AF9  1 byte  Y Sub-position

Cartridge RAM  16C1  2 bytes  X Velocity

Cartridge RAM  0BEC  2 bytes  Y Velocity

Cartridge RAM  14A1  2 bytes  Ability

SA1 IRAM  03AE  2 bytes  Fall-through counter

Misc

SA1 IRAM  0743  2 bytes  PRNG state

Links

Forum topic

SDX TAS Wiki  - Japanese wiki detailing numerous tricks, speed tech, and internal data specifically for TASing

Milky Way Wishes 100%  - Standalone Milky Way Wishes TAS with Japanese commentary

RNG manip lua script  - RNG manipulation HUD for Bizhawk (Faust core)

Luascript for TASing  - This is an old script for snes9x-rr

Another luascript  - Also for snes9x-rr, shows sprite data

See also

Game Resources  - we have resource pages for other games too!

Common Tricks  - tricks common to many games

Boss Fighting Guide  - tricks specific to boss fights

GameResources/SNES/KirbySuperStar last edited by adelikat  on 8/31/2023 4:18 PM

Page History

Latest diff

List referrers

View Source

&copy; 2026 - TASVideos v2.6-db6dfdb

Terms

API