Kirby Super Star - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Kirby Super Star

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Kirby Super Star

Also known as : Hoshi no Kirby Super Deluxe (JP), Kirby's Fun Pak (EU/AU)  Developer :

HAL Laboratory

&#91;1&#93;

Publisher :

Nintendo

&#91;1&#93;

Platform :

SNES

Released internationally : December 12,&#160;2019  &#91;2&#93;

(NSO)  Released in JP : March 21,&#160;1996  &#91;3&#93;

Released in US : September 3,&#160;1996  &#91;4&#93;

Released in CA : September 24,&#160;1996  &#91;5&#93;

Released in EU : January 1997  &#91;6&#93;

Released in AU : September 1996  &#91;7&#93;

Released in BR : December 1996  &#91;8&#93;

This game has  unused areas .

This game has  unused enemies .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused items .

This game has  unused text .

This game has  debugging material .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a prerelease article

This game has a notes page

This game has a Data Crystal page

Kirby Super Star

makes

Kirby's Adventure

look like

Kirby's Dream Land  .

It was later remade as

Kirby Super Star Ultra

on the Nintendo DS, which updated the graphics and added a bunch of new modes.

Contents

1

Sub-Pages

2

Debug Features

2.1

Sprite Viewer

2.2

VRAM Viewer

3

Unused Rooms

3.1

Room 11C

3.2

Room 120

3.3

Room 12A

4

Stage Oddities

4.1

Chapter 1

4.2

Chapter 5

4.3

Chapter 8

5

Unused Level Tiles

5.1

Wooded Hollow

6

Unused Room Palettes

6.1

Palette 69

6.2

Palette 93

6.3

Palette 94

6.4

Palette 95

6.5

Palette AB

7

Unused Text

7.1

Spring Breeze Quick Tutorial

7.2

“The Beginner's Show” Copy Explanation

7.3

Revenge of Meta-Knight Opening Cutscene

8

Regional Differences

8.1

Title Screen

8.2

Food

8.3

Tutorial

8.4

Controller

8.5

Spring Breeze

8.6

Samurai Kirby

8.7

Gourmet Race

8.8

Final Credits

8.9

The Arena Logo Animation

8.10

Computer Virus Battle

8.11

Japan-Only Glitches

9

Revisional Differences

10

Error Messages

10.1

Bad Controller

10.2

Region Error

11

References

Sub-Pages

Prerelease Info

Notes

Unused Graphics

Graphics never seen in normal play.

Unused Enemy Palettes

Most enemies have three different palettes, but a good chunk of them are never used.

Debug Features

To do:  See if there is anything else per the Talk page.

Sprite Viewer

Entering a room with Pro Action Replay (PAR) code

00740B01

enabled (all versions) will activate a sprite test mode, showing both Kirby and the helper in the middle of the screen and allowing you to cycle through all of their sprites.

The following buttons can be used on Controller 1 to manipulate Kirby's sprite:

A/B  - Cycle back/forward one frame at a time.

X/Y  - Cycle back/forward through frames continuously.

L/R  - Cycle through frames for the Ability Cap only.

D-Pad  - Moves the Ability Cap one pixel at a time, or continuously if  Start  is also being held.

Select  - Cycles to the next ability.

Start  - Pauses (without displaying the ability info screen), and also toggles displaying the Ability Cap behind or in front of Kirby.

Likewise, Controller 2 can be used for the helper's sprite:

A/B/X/Y  - Cycle through sprites the same as for Kirby.

D-Pad  - Moves the helper around the screen.

Select  - Cycles to the next helper.

Note that enemies will still be active, and if an enemy (or its attack) collides with the helper (and probably also Kirby) they will go back to being playable as normal with the selected ability.

Also, having the code enabled prior to entering a room will cause some anomalies with the way Kirby's sprite is displayed, due to the game thinking the sprite test has already been activated - namely, Kirby will always appear to be facing the same direction, and the "idle" frame of the Ability Cap will be drawn directly centered on Kirby's sprite, instead of ever being given its correct frame and position.

There is no apparent way to activate or deactivate this other than enabling the code and entering a room, or taking damage or restarting the game.

VRAM Viewer

Another minor debug feature exists, allowing you to view the current contents of VRAM. Notably, this feature is designed to be booted directly into &#8212; it performs a nearly full system initialization, excluding the existing contents of video and palette memory.

The following Game Genie or Pro Action Replay (PAR) codes can be used to enter this screen by pressing  L + R + Select + Start :

GG:

8389-0FA7 2889-04D7

(US) or

918E-D467 288E-D4A7

(JP)

PAR:

00BD57BE 00BD58DB

(US) or

00BCFA56 00BCFBDB

(JP)

The following controls are available on this screen:

Up/Down  - Scroll the currently-visible VRAM page.

A/B  - Cycle through available VRAM pages.

L/R/X/Y  - Cycle through available palettes.

If this screen is activated during gameplay, there will be a visible screen split due to the status bar IRQ never being disabled. This will allow you to only scroll the portion of the screen above where the status bar was.

Resetting the SNES is the only way out of this screen.

(Source: Original TCRF research)

Unused Rooms

A few of the game's many, many rooms are never used.  Game Genie  or  Pro Action Replay  (PAR) codes will change the first door in Green Greens to exit to the appropriate room, unless noted otherwise.

None of these rooms are present in  Super Star Ultra .

Room 11C

GG code

FA44-53AD DF44-5EDD

PAR code

F0212B1C F0212C01

A completely empty room using the Green Greens theme. The Peanut Plains music track plays here.

Room 120

GG code

4D44-53AD DF44-5EDD

PAR code

F0212B20 F0212C01

An unused quick tutorial room. Based on its placement by ID, this would be a quick tutorial for Spring Breeze. The actual quick tutorial used for Spring Breeze is the same as the one used for Dyna Blade.

According to the game's director, Masahiro Sakurai, Spring Breeze originally didn't feature copy abilities, which would've necessitated a different tutorial (likely focused exclusively on inhaling and spitting enemies out), so this might be a leftover from that period.

Room 12A

GG code

62BC-EED4 EEB8-EE64

PAR code

F09BAC8D F09BBEFF

(used for the first door in Cocoa Cave)

Unused bonus cannon room. This  should  be used after the Iron Mam battle on the main map. It's placed directly before the Iron Mam battle room, just as the other bonus cannon rooms are placed before the first actual room of a level. Presumably a door with a room warp ID of

FF7F

would lead to this room, but there's no room in the level data to place a door warp.

Since this room is never accessed the way it's intended, the object graphics are loaded incorrectly. To fix this, beat a level in Dyna Blade first, then immediately go to Cocoa Cave and enter the door. This will fix the object graphics, though the bonus cannon will not use the proper yellow palette.

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

Stage Oddities

A couple rooms in Revenge of Meta Knight have various oddities in normally inaccessible areas. Similar content may exist in other rooms as well.

Chapter 1

Hidden from view in the first room of the stage is a solitary Wheelie on a ledge. It's positioned right above where Kirby's Warp Star crashes. Stranger still is that this is the only Wheelie in that room. Its behavior is set to charge at Kirby when he gets too close.

On his Warp Star rampage, Kirby never moves close enough to the Wheelie to activate it. Even if he did, the Warp Star goes too fast for the Wheelie to catch up. In  Super Star Ultra , the camera allows Kirby to fly up and reach the Wheelie enemy.

Use Game Genie code

BCC4-1CAD

and enter the first door in Green Greens. You'll be able to move around freely in the left side of the room. Also, if you die in the first room of Level 1, the screen boundary doesn't activate, allowing you to fly and get the Wheelie enemy.

Chapter 5

Another enemy that's hidden in normal play. This Waddle Doo is never activated, as the camera never scrolls far enough to the right.

Further to the right are some tiles that don't appear anywhere else in the game. They even have the correct properties, sloped and everything! Perhaps there was supposed to be a Maxim Tomato or 1-Up or  something  down this path. In

Kirby Super Star Ultra  , both Waddle Doo and these unique slopes are removed from the level entirely. The slopes got replaced with more generic ones.

Game Genie code

84C4-1CAD D7C7-166D

will place you on the right side of the Laser Ball wall. Just take the first door in Green Greens.

Chapter 8

In the room after the Meta Knight battle, there's a door that can't be entered in normal play. The player doesn't have any control over Kirby at this point. However, through hacking you can enter the door, and it actually works!

In this room's level data, there's a specific warp coded for that door. The warp goes to...the same room, slightly below the normal spawn point. This might have been put in for testing purposes in case the Wheelie helper failed to spawn. The entrance was removed in

Kirby Super Star Ultra  , and the room got unused.

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

Unused Level Tiles

To do:  Search for unused metatiles in the remaining tilesets.

Tiles that are unused. Self-explanatory, really.

Wooded Hollow

A gigantic amount of tiles for the Wooded Hollow tileset go unused. There are four rooms in the game that use this tileset, and they're all mostly flat with no platforms at all! Spikes, bomb blocks, even regular blocks are never used in those rooms.

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

Unused Room Palettes

Game Genie codes are provided where applicable.

Palette 69

An unused wavy grass palette with sort of an autumnal sunset look. Use Game Genie code

1BCD-1CDD

to set this palette to the first room of Green Greens.

Palette 93

Palette 90

Palette 93

A dark version of Palette 90. Light and dark palettes are only used in three places: the lit and unlit candle rooms in the Old Tower area of The Great Cave Offensive, and for Kracko's lightning attack. Both candle rooms use the light and dark blue ruins palettes, so this never gets used. Game Genie code

BD25-18AA B726-16DA

will enable this palette in the lit candle room.

Palette 94

Palette 91

Palette 94

Same as above, but with a green color scheme. Game Genie code

BFA0-3BAE B0A0-3CDE

will enable this palette in the unlit candle room.

Palette 95

This would presumably be used for a dark room too, but there's no corresponding bright palette in the game.

Palette AB

A brighter version of the dark cloud palette that's used in the game. Game Genie code

C827-4CDE

sets Bubbly Clouds' first room to use this palette.

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

Unused Text

Spring Breeze Quick Tutorial

Y button makes kirby
suck up an enemy,

Attack enemy by
spitting it out!

B button makes
kirby jump,

Continue to push,
kirby can fly!

Addresses:

B3183  ,

B31B3  ,

B31DD  , and

B3201

(US)

Text for a scrapped quick tutorial exists prior to the quick tutorial text shared by Spring Breeze and Dyna Blade. It is in a rough state grammatically, and oddly does not capitalize Kirby's name. This aligns with the existence of  the unused quick tutorial room .

“The Beginner's Show” Copy Explanation

Congratulations on
clearing
“Spring Breeze.”

However, this is
only beginning.
More fun is on the way!

Addresses:

B217D

and

B21B3

(US)

Text apparently meant to be used near the beginning of the copy ability tutorial, based on its placement in the ROM. This implies that the tutorial would first be available when starting Dyna Blade, and that Dyna Blade would not unlock until after completing Spring Breeze. The copy tutorial is offered when starting both sub-games in the final game, and both are among the four available when opening a new file.

Enemies with abilities
will flash.
Take a close look.

Address:

B2444

(US)

This exists immediately after the string which states that some enemies will not give a copy ability. The reason for this being omitted may be due to some enemies with copy abilities not flashing, either because they have a different palette animation, or share their palettes with enemies that don't give them. Notably for enemies in the the latter group,  this doesn't appear to have been the original intent .

Then, if the copied
character is thrown
away, it's ready.

Address:

B25E8

(US)

A string stored before the instructions for creating a Helper. Its placement doesn't make sense, implying that other text was rewritten.

Revenge of Meta-Knight Opening Cutscene

“All ready
for departure.”

Address:

B420F

(US)

Meant to be used in the opening cutscene played while waiting at Revenge of Meta-Knight's title screen. This string exists between “Release the sails, solar level 288!” and Meta-Knight's first line “The time has come. The time to show our power!” Oddly, unlike the others in this section, this string is skipped in the pointer table.

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

Regional Differences

A throng of graphical changes were made between the Japanese and international versions of the game, some involving the abject terror that is Japanese food.

Title Screen

Japan

US

Europe

Compared to the Japanese logo, the US and European logos have a darker coloration, lack the blue outline and look noticeably more compressed, the European logo more so. The dots in the background had to be adjusted for each logo, and the bars around the copyright info ended up changing color with each version due to sharing their palette with the logo: in the Japanese version, the bars are blue, in the US version, the bars are orange, in the European version, the bars are yellow.

The European logo also has pretty blatant cutoff around Kirby's feet due to not updating the graphic from the  Super Star  logo to fit the shape of the  Fun Pak  letters.

US and European versions list 1995 and 1996 years in copyright text, while the Japanese version lists only 1995.

Food

12 of the food items were altered from the Japanese version. The foods at the top are Japanese, the ones at the bottom are from the other releases. You probably figured that out on your own. This change is retained in  Super Star Ultra .

Tutorial

Japan

International

The  Shoshinsha mark  (a Japanese symbol used for newbies/new drivers) was replaced by good ol' Kirby elsewhere. As the tutorial icon consists of two halves that are "slammed" together, the driving symbol makes more sense than cutting poor Kirby in half.

Super Star Ultra  uses two halves of a whole Kirby in all versions.

Controller

Japan

US

Europe

All three versions use their respective SNES controller design for the tutorials, with the US controller gaining a bit of extra detail. Oddly, the European version's tutorial text wasn't changed from the US version, so it still refers to the controller having purple buttons.

Spring Breeze

Japan

International

Like in  the original game , the sign Kirby holds up at the end of the credits was changed, reading "つづく" ("to be continued") in the Japanese version and... "NEXT" in the international version.

Samurai Kirby

Japan

International

There are animated weeds in the foreground in the Japanese version. These were cut down in order to fit the larger English text.  Super Star Ultra  (whose version of the minigame is ported straight from the original, graphics and all) features them in all versions.

Gourmet Race

Japan

International

After completing a round, the text "clear time" is written in the Japanese version. This was changed to just "time" in the international versions.

Final Credits

Japan

International

In the Japanese version, the credits for Milky Way Wishes have a banner that reads まいど ( maido , "thanks" in the Kansai dialect) next to one of the Kirby graphics. This was removed in the international versions of both this game and  Super Star Ultra . The graphic's return appearances in

Kirby's Return to Dream Land

and

Kirby: Triple Deluxe

are left intact in most regions, except for the Korean versions, which replace it with Korean text.

Japan

International

In addition, the "and more..." text at the end was changed to "There's more...". This change isn't present in  Super Star Ultra , likely due to its credits being an FMV.

The Arena Logo Animation

Japan

International

In the Japanese version, the title text for The Arena "explodes" onto the logo as it fades in. This was removed in other versions, and the international logo appears to be pre-rendered as opposed to hand drawn.

Computer Virus Battle

Japan

US/Europe

The Computer Virus boss was originally known as Battle Windows in the Japanese version. The Japanese name is more accurate to the boss' appearance; perhaps they thought western players might have confused it as jab against Microsoft. This change was kept for  Super Star Ultra .

Japan

International

DARK NIGHT

EVIL KNIGHT

The Evil Knight's name was changed. You can probably guess  why .

Japan-Only Glitches

All of the following glitches work only on the Japanese version and were fixed in international versions. Each one requires you to press two opposing directions on the controller at the same time, which is only possible if the controller is either very worn or poorly designed.

As Jet Kirby, do a semi-charged or fully-charged boost in midair. Pressing  Up + Down  while flying sends Kirby flying diagonally. If he bumps into a wall after a semi-charged boost while holding  Up + Down , Kirby will bounce skyward very fast.

As Fire Kirby, do a running boost in midair. Pressing  Up + Down  causes Kirby to zip downward very fast, passing through floors.

As Plasma Kirby, holding  Left + Right  and pressing  Up  charges to the maximum immediately, allowing you to fire fully-charged shots right away.

As Yo-Yo Kirby, pressing  Up + Down + Y  in midair causes Kirby to disappear forever. If you do this with a helper, the game acts as if the helper doesn't exist.

Pressing  Up + Down  on a ladder crashes the game.

Revisional Differences

To do:  There are some revisional differences between the original Japanese ROMs documented  here .

Later releases of the game (Virtual Console, SNES Classic Edition, Nintendo Switch Online) reduced the flashing lights that appears when bosses use certain attacks (i.e. Marx's laser), defeating a boss, or when Kirby loses a life, as part of Nintendo's newer policies in order to avoid causing epileptic seizures.

Error Messages

Bad Controller

Japan

International

Comes up at boot if anything other than a regular SNES controller is plugged into either controller port.

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

Region Error

Comes up at boot if an American/Japanese cartridge is being played on a European/Australian console (or vice versa).

References

↑

1.0

1.1

星のカービィ スーパーデラックス／Kirby Super Star／Kirby’s Fun Pak | HAL Laboratory

↑

SNES NSO

↑

星のカービィスーパーデラックス

↑

N64 Press Release . "Kirby Super Star, launching on September 3, features the popular Kirby in eight different games contained on one cartridge."

↑

Sears Canada Wish Book 1996, p. 549 . " Kirby Super Star.  Available Sept. 24, 1996."

↑

MegaFun Magazine (February 1997), p. 3 . " KIRBY'S FUN PAK (JAN.) "

↑

Nintendo Magazine System (AU) 44 November 1996, p. 30 . Terminology here is "OUT NOW" for every game before October.

↑

Kirby Super Star Releases - MobyGames

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Kirby

series

Game Boy

Kirby's Dream Land &#160;&#8226;

Kirby's Dream Land 2

NES

Kirby's Adventure

SNES

Kirby Super Star &#160;&#8226;

Kirby's Dream Land 3

Nintendo 64

Kirby 64: The Crystal Shards

Game Boy Advance

Kirby: Nightmare in Dream Land &#160;&#8226;

Kirby & the Amazing Mirror  ( Demo )

Nintendo DS

Kirby: Squeak Squad &#160;&#8226;

Kirby Super Star Ultra

Wii

Kirby's Return to Dream Land

Nintendo 3DS

3D Classics: Kirby's Adventure &#160;&#8226;

Kirby: Triple Deluxe &#160;&#8226;

Kirby: Planet Robobot

Nintendo Switch

Kirby Star Allies &#160;&#8226;

Kirby and the Forgotten Land &#160;&#8226;  Kirby's Return to Dream Land Deluxe

Side Games

Nintendo DS

Kirby: Canvas Curse &#160;&#8226;

Kirby Mass Attack

Wii

Kirby's Epic Yarn &#160;&#8226;

Kirby's Dream Collection

Nintendo 3DS

Kirby's Extra Epic Yarn

Wii U

Kirby and the Rainbow Curse

Spin-Offs

Game Boy (Color)

Kirby's Pinball Land &#160;&#8226;

Kirby's Block Ball &#160;&#8226;

Kirby's Star Stacker &#160;&#8226;

Kirby Tilt 'n' Tumble &#160;&#8226;

Jaguar Mishin Sashi Senyou Soft: Kirby Family

SNES

Kirby's Dream Course &#160;&#8226;

Kirby's Avalanche &#160;&#8226;

Kirby's Star Stacker

Satellaview  Kirby no Omochabako ( Baseball ,  Pinball ,  Hoshi Kuzushi )

GameCube

Kirby Air Ride

Wii

Kirby TV Channel

Nintendo 3DS

Kirby Fighters Deluxe &#160;&#8226;

Team Kirby Clash Deluxe &#160;&#8226;

Kirby's Blowout Blast &#160;&#8226;

Kirby Battle Royale  ( Demo )

Nintendo Switch

Super Kirby Clash &#160;&#8226;

Kirby Fighters 2 &#160;&#8226;

Kirby's Dream Buffet

Related

Eggerland &#160;&#8226;

Special Tee Shot  ( Prototype )

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Kirby_Super_Star&oldid=2004985 "

Categories :

Games developed by HAL Laboratory

Games published by Nintendo

SNES games

Games released in 1996

Games released in March

Games released on March 21

Games with unused areas

Games with unused enemies

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused items

Games with unused text

Games with debugging functions

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Kirby series

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused areas

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused enemies

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused items

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by HAL Laboratory

Games  >  Games by platform  >  SNES games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Nintendo

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1996

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in March

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in March  >  Games released on March 21

Games  >  Games by series  >  Kirby series

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 1 January 2026, at 20:16.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers