Crash 'n the Boys: Street Challenge - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Crash 'n the Boys: Street Challenge

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Crash 'n the Boys: Street Challenge

Also known as : Bikkuri Nekketsu Shin Kiroku!: Harukanaru Kin Medal (JP), Surprise! Nekketsu New Records! The Distant Gold Medal (2020)  Developer :

Technos Japan

Publishers :

Technos Japan

(JP),

American Technos

(US),

Arc System Works

(EU/AU)  Platform :

NES

Released internationally : February 20,&#160;2020 (Double Dragon & Kunio-kun Retro Brawler Bundle)  Released in JP : June 26,&#160;1992  Released in US : October 1992  Released in EU : November 28,&#160;2013 (3DS Virtual Console)  Released in AU : November 28,&#160;2013 (3DS Virtual Console)

This game has  hidden development-related text .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  regional differences .

Surprise! Nekketsu New Records! The Distant Gold Medal  is the sequel to

Downtown Nekketsu March: Super-Awesome Field Day!  , featuring even more zany (and lethal!) track and field events. Unlike its predecessor, this one actually did manage to receive a contempoary "westernization" as

Crash 'n the Boys: Street Challenge  , though it strangely opted to create a brand new localized cast instead of tying itself to

River City Ransom  .

Contents

1

Unused Graphics

2

Disabled Debug Menu

3

Regional Differences

3.1

Title Screen

3.2

Introduction

3.3

Characters

3.4

Palette

3.5

Shop

3.6

400 Meter Hurdles

3.7

Hammer Throw

3.8

Swimming

3.9

Roof Top Jumping

3.10

Fighting Scene

3.11

Misc.

3.12

Ending

4

Revisional differences

Unused Graphics

This needs some investigation.

Discuss ideas and findings on the  talk page .

Specifically:  Is this still displayable?

In the Japanese version, there are letters stored with the title screen graphics that spell "SAMPLE VER."

Disabled Debug Menu

400M
BOU JUMP
HAMMER
JUDO
SWIM

SHOP
PNO TEST
SND TEST
SYOKUSYU
BACKTEST

The game contains an unused, unreferenced text display routine and associated strings for what appears to have been a debug menu. The text strings can be found at ROM address

0x4581  .

Regional Differences

To do:  A comparision between the Japanese and American scripts as the former now has an official direct English translation (as part of Double Dragon & Kunio-kun Retro Brawler Bundle)

As with every other Kunio-kun game at the time, this one also went through some pretty drastic changes when shipped overseas.

Title Screen

The US title screen was given a complete overhaul, unsurprisingly.

Japan

US

Worldwide

Introduction

Note: The script in Double Dragon & Kunio-kun Retro Brawler Bundle is presented in all-caps. It has been converted into mixed-case here for easier reading.

Japan

Official Translation (Double Dragon & Kunio-kun Retro Brawler Bundle)

US

Tōdō from Reiho came up with a frightening new plan

To smash all the other schools once and for all!

He held an olympic-style athletics competition!

But of course, his plan ended in a total failure.

Kunio's team crushed his evil ambitions yet again.

Tōdō: If-if only it hadn't been for you...

Tōdō: I'll think up an even harder challenge next time!

Crash Cooney and the Southside Boys swept the All-City Track Meet-again!

Like always, Cooney smashed all the rich snobs from up on the Hill in every event.

The worst "Hiller", Todd Thornley III was furious at losing to Crash 'N The Boys.

As Southside celebrated, Todd issued his challenge: Todd: "You're goin' down Cooney".

Crash: "Anytime, Thornley..me and my boys will take you on anytime...anyplace..."

Now, there was no turning back from the challenge... Winner takes all!!

The original introduction directly references the plot of  Downtown Nekketsu March: Super-Awesome Field Day! , something inevitably lost in translation as that game was never localized. In  Crash 'N The Boys , any instance of Todd/Tōdō creating the tournament was removed and instead of swearing revenge towards Crash/Kunio for his total failure, he's simply depicted as a jerk.

Japan

Official Translation (from the Double Dragon & Kunio-kun Retro Brawler Bundle)

US

Later, in Todo's father's company headquarters...

Flunky: Now, for this month's oil profits, sir...

Kōnosuke: Yeah, get on with it already!

Tōdō: Waaaah! Papaaa!! Hieeee! *Sniffle*

Kōnosuke: Wh-what are you doing here, son?!

Flunky: Owwww... What's the meaning of this? What could ever make our CEO's son panic so much?!

Tōdō: I need to ask you for a favor, papa!

Tōdō: Kunio's been bullying me everyday lately!

Tōdō: And my pride just can't take it anymore!

Kōnosuke: What can I do for you, son?

Flunky: Just relax, and remember... Your father is powerful enough to do anything!

The 59th Floor of Thornley Industries Worldwide HQ.

Mr. Lee: "Have you heard the news Mr. Thornley? It didn't go well for the Hillers."

Mr. Thornley: "I know Mr. Lee. I've sent for my son, Todd. What a disgrace he is to us!"

Todd: "Father! Please don't throw me out!"

Mr. Thornley: "Silence loser! We don't toilerate failures"

Mr. Lee: "We can't let Crash and the Southside boys keep showing us up, Mr. Thornley!"

Mr. Lee: "Todd, you must challenge them to a rematch!"

Todd: "I'd like to get Cooney out there with no rules to protect him. THAT'S IT!"

Todd: "Father, I'll challenge Crash to an unsactioned contest to show him."

Todd: "And to rub it in, we'll take him on his own turf on the Southside!!"

Mr. Thornley: "This better work, Todd! Otherwhise, you're history!"

Mr. Lee: "I have a back-up plan, Mr. Thornley.."

Mr. Lee: "I'll build a team of super athletes from our 900,000 employees.. just in case.."

In  Surprise! Nekketsu New Records! , Tōdō begs and pretends that Kunio has been bullying him in order to get his father, Kōnosuke, to build a sports colosseum dedicated to challenging Nekketsu High. Meanwhile, Todd's begging is completely genuine as his father, Mr. Thornley, is depicted as a merciless jerkass who threatens to throw him out if he doesn't beat the Southsiders (Oddly, Todd still glances smugly at the screen at one point as Tōdō does in  Surprise! Nekketsu New Records! , which doesn't make much sense with the new story.) The plot point about Tōdō's father building a stadium for the event was thrown out in favor of emphasizing the "Street Challenge" part of the new title, and in its place is a new plot point about Mr. Lee building a team of super athlethes from Thornley Industries' 900,000 employees, represented in-game by the CPU-only Team Thornley (replacing the Oklahoma High School team from  Surprise! Nekketsu New Records! ).

Japan

US

In addition, Tōdō is wearing a school uniform, whereas Todd is wearing tanktop/pants. His portrait in this scene was changed accordingly.

Japan

US

The place the scene between Todd/Tōdō and Skip/Yamada takes place at was changed from the colosseum under construction to the outside of Thornley Industries to fit the new story.

Japan

Official Translation (Double Dragon & Kunio-kun Retro Brawler Bundle)

US

Yamada: So now you tricked your own father, huh?

Yamada: What is this place? A huge construction site?

Tōdō: Hahaha! Feast your eyes on my colosseum!

Tōdō: We've got it all! A pool, even a golf course!

Tōdō: And i'm gonna use it all to humiliate Kunio!

Yamada: Wow... Kunio's really in for it now!

Yamada: ...I'm hungry. Buy me some ramen, Todo!

Tōdō: What? How dare you...

Tōdō: Which ramen? I'll buy the whole store!

Soon the colosseum was completed!

Skip: "You really want to do this Todd? I mean.. why do we have to go down there?"

Skip: "The Southside is way too dangerous to be playing MACHO-EGO games."

Todd: "Quiet, Skip! I've got no choice. This time Cooney has done it!"

Todd: "I'm tired of these slobs from the Southside making me look stupid!"

Skip: "Crash and the Southsiders make me very nervous, Todd! I'm scared!"

Todd: "Oh grow up Skip you worm! I've got to find Spreckles and Van Smythe."

Todd: "With their schools joining us, the hillers will teach Crash a lesson or two!"

Naturally, the Southsiders accepted Todd's challenge... and the stage was set...

Yamada asks Tōdō to buy some ramen for him, whereas Skip is a total coward.

Characters

To do:  Sprite rips of the CPU-only characters and palette comparisons.

Japan

US

All the teams and characters were renamed, with several of them getting a visual overhaul. Team Nekketsu (in white) underwent the most changes during its transformation into Southside High. While Kunio himself remained relatively the same when he became Crash Cooney, the rest of his team were given a makeover in some form or another: the second-in-command Sugata was renamed Cheese and was given a different hairstyle; the third member, Morimoto, became Dragon and was given slanted eyes similar to ones that the Dragon Twins have; and the last two members, Nanase and Ichijō, became two black characters named Sting and Noise.

Tōdō and Yamada, who were non-playable antagonists in the Japanese version, became Todd and Skip in the American version and were made into actual participants in the sporting events. Todd replaces Riki, Kunio's rival and captain of Team Hanazono (in blue), which becomes Washington High, while Skip replaces Ryūji, one of the Dragon Twins on Team Reihō (in red), which becomes Lincoln High. The other Dragon Twin, Ryūichi, is replaced by a new captain named Artie, a palette swap of Noise. The fourth team, Team Rengō (in green), which became Jefferson High, is only the team whose members were not changed between region. Rengō (which means union) does not represent a particular school, but instead is composed of members from different schools. Players of

River City Ransom

are likely to recognize Gōda, Godai and Nishimura as Ivan, Tex and Rocko, or as they're called in  Street Challenge , Spreck, Clint and Baldy.

The CPU-only Oklahoma High School team (in purple) in the Japanese version became Team Thornley in the American version and underwent similar roster changes as the playable teams. Raphael, the sole black member of Team Oklahoma (whose design was used for Artie and Noise in the American version), became Crush, who uses the face as Riki, while Jimmy, a palette swap of the Dragon Twins (no doubt a reference to

Double Dragon  ), became Foil, a palette swap of Sting.

Palette

In a matter similar to

Super Dodge Ball

and

Nintendo World Cup  , the Japanese version uses three palettes to represent the different races of characters featured in the game.

The Japanese characters, which means practically all the playable characters plus a few NPCs such as Tōdō and Yamada, are drawn with black outlines and pink-ish skin tone.

The white Americans that are part of Team Oklahoma are drawn with more yellow-ish skin tones and brown outlines.

Raphael, the sole black member of Team Oklahoma, is drawn with a brown skin tone and black outlines.

In  Street Challenge , the second palette is used for almost all the characters, while the third palette is used for Southside High members Sting and Noise. The first palette went unused. Despite this, the palette change was only partially applied on the team and athlete select screens, which gives all the white characters the more pink-ish skin tone of their Japanese counterparts.

Shop

Japan

US

The "drug" sign on the drugstore was changed to a "health food store" sign, likely due to the negative connotations that the word "drug" by itself has.

Also, the team's female manager will swing on the swing set if you move her to it. This little feature was removed from the US release.

400 Meter Hurdles

Japan

US

The background of the "400 meter hurdles" event was changed from a stadium to an alleyway. The sky palette was also made brighter.

(Note: This event uses four rows of parallax scrolling, which have been combined into a single image here.)

Hammer Throw

Japan

US

The sparse mountains in the background of the "hammer throw" event were changed to a cityscape. Again, the sky palette was made brighter.

Swimming

Japan

US

The background of the "swimming" event was changed from Japan to New York City.

Roof Top Jumping

Japan

US

The cityscape background was redrawn (the US version including the Twin Towers and other NYC landmarks) and the rooftops were recolored from gray to brown.

Fighting Scene

Japan

US

The background here was changed from a Zen temple to a city lot. It was also extended vertically by 16 pixels.

The characters also wear judo uniforms during this event, which was changed to their regular street clothes for the US release.

Misc.

Japan

US

The screen that introduces the events was completely redesigned. The Japanese version features Riki's girlfriend Mami on a blue background with the word "NEKKETU" tiled on it. The US version changes this to a brick pattern.

Japan

US

The podium shown at the end of each event was changed from a very Japanese scene with cherry blossoms to a more dilapidated-looking city lot.

Ending

The Japanese ending screen features an animation of Momozono (the manager/cheerleader of Team Nekketsu) swinging on a swing set. The US version replaces this with an advertisement for  Crash 'n the Boys: Ice Challenge , which would have been a localization of the earlier-released

Ike Ike! Nekketsu Hockey-Bu  . Unfortunately, the planned  Ice Challenge  localization ended up being unreleased, though a translation of  Nekketsu Hockey-Bu  would eventually be released in 2020 as  Go-Go! Nekketsu Hockey Club Slip-and-Slide Madness , as part of the  Double Dragon and Kunio-kun Retro Brawler Bundle .

The story in the Japanese version also concludes with a staff roll, which was omitted from the US release.

Japan

US

Revisional differences

This needs some investigation.

Discuss ideas and findings on the  talk page .

Specifically:  Does this apply to other rereleases of the game?

In all versions of Kunio-kun: The World Classics Collection/Double Dragon & Kunio-kun Retro Brawler Bundle, the Red Cross icon present in the original Japanese version's drugstore was removed.

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Kunio-kun

series

Arcade

Renegade

NES

Renegade &#160;&#8226;

River City Ransom &#160;&#8226;

Nintendo World Cup &#160;&#8226;

Downtown Nekketsu Koushin Kyoku &#160;&#8226;

Downtown Special &#160;&#8226;

Ike Ike! Nekketsu Hockey-Bu &#160;&#8226;

Crash 'n the Boys: Street Challenge &#160;&#8226;

Nekketsu Kakutou Densetsu &#160;&#8226;

Kunio-kun no Nekketsu Soccer League &#160;&#8226;

Nekketsu! Street Basket: Ganbare Dunk Heroes

Game Boy

Nintendo World Cup &#160;&#8226;

Double Dragon II &#160;&#8226;

Nekketsu! Beach Volley dayo Kunio-kun

SNES

River City Girls Zero

Game Boy Advance

River City Ransom EX

Nintendo DS

River City: Soccer Hooligans

Nintendo 3DS

River City: Rival Showdown

Windows

River City Ransom Underground &#160;&#8226;

River City Girls

Super Dodge Ball

Arcade

Super Dodge Ball

NES

Super Dodge Ball

SNES

Kunio-kun no Dodgeball da yo Zen'in Shuugou!

Genesis

Nekketsu Koukou Dodgeball Bu: Soccer Hen MD

TurboGrafx-16

Nekketsu Koukou Dodgeball Bu: PC Bangai-hen &#160;&#8226;

Nekketsu Koukou Dodgeball Bu: PC Soccer-hen

Nintendo DS

Super Dodgeball Brawlers

Neo Geo

Super Dodge Ball

See Also

Renegade

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Crash_%27n_the_Boys:_Street_Challenge&oldid=1979560 "

Categories :

Games developed by Technos Japan

Games published by Technos Japan

Games published by American Technos

Games published by Arc System Works

NES games

Games released in 1992

Games released in June

Games released on June 26

Games with hidden development-related text

Games with unused graphics

Games with regional differences

To investigate

To do

Kunio-kun series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Cleanup  >  To investigate

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden development-related text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Technos Japan

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Arc System Works

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Technos Japan

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Technos Japan  >  Games published by American Technos

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1992

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in June

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in June  >  Games released on June 26

Games  >  Games by series  >  Kunio-kun series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 1 December 2025, at 05:47.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers