Guerrilla War (NES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Guerrilla War (NES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

This page contains

changes

which are not marked for translation.

Other languages:

English &#160;• ‎ español &#160;• ‎ italiano &#160;• ‎ português do Brasil &#160;• ‎ 日本語 &#160;• ‎ 한국어

Guerrilla War

Also known as : Guevara (JP)  Developer :

SNK

&#91;1&#93;

Publisher :

SNK

&#91;1&#93;

&#91;2&#93;

Platform :

NES

Released in JP : December 26,&#160;1988  &#91;1&#93;

Released in US : June 1989  &#91;2&#93;

Released in ES :  1991  &#91;3&#93;

Released in AU : Likely  1992  &#91;4&#93;

This game has a  hidden developer message .

This game has  hidden developer credits .

This game has  unused modes / minigames .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused music .

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has  regional differences .

Guerrilla War

is (more or less) an NES port of the arcade game of the same name. Any similarities to the Cuban Revolution are  purely coincidental.

Cough.

Contents

1

Hidden Text

2

Level and Difficulty Select

3

Hidden Initials

4

Unused Graphics

4.1

General

4.2

Map Screen

4.3

5th Area

4.4

10th Area

5

Unused Music

6

Regional Differences

6.1

Title

6.2

Character Names

6.3

Sasuke vs. Commander

6.4

Credits

6.5

Epilogue

7

References

Hidden Text

Some messages from the programmers are located at

0xF8BD

(US version) and

0xFB8F

(Japanese version) in the ROM:

APO? mess

DaDi DaDaDa DaDi
ATHENA ikima--su
MARIchan muzukas
hikute wakanna-i
Ganbarima-----su
Ti-----me Girl!!
Fight&#160;! Fight&#160;!!
HoHoHoHoHoHoHoHo
Knt mess

NIKAGETSU DE TSU
KKUTTAN DAZO-

HOMETE HOMETE

3/9/88 20:0

BUG GA DEMASSEN 
YOUNI ....

Original

Translated

ATHENA ikima--su

ATHENA  行きます  ATHENA ikimasu!

Athena, ready to go!

MARIchan muzukas
hikute wakanna-i

マリちゃん難しくてわかんない。  MARI-chan muzukashikute wakannai.

Mari-chan is tough. I don't understand her!

Ganbarima-----su

がんばります！  Ganbarimasu!

I'll do my best!

NIKAGETSU DE TSU
KKUTTAN DAZO-

HOMETE HOMETE

二ヶ月でつっくたんだぞ！ほめてほめて。  Nikagetsu de tsukkutan da zo! Homete homete.

I managed to finish this game in 2 months! Let's hear it for me!

BUG GA DEMASSEN 
YOUNI ....

バグがでまっせんように...  BUG ga demassen you ni...

I hope there aren't any bugs...

(Translation: GlitterBerri)

Knt  is the main programmer, Yukio Kaneda.  APO' s identity is unknown.

"Athena, ready to go!" (± some words) is a line from  Psycho Soldier , another SNK game.

Level and Difficulty Select

Hold  A + B  when selecting the number of players for this menu, with a difficulty and stage selection. Note that all stages except the last are accessible here.

Hidden Initials

These hidden powerups in stage 3 are arranged to spell out the developer/publisher name (SNK) and the main programmer's pseudonym (KNT). Note that some of the powerups may fail to spawn due to sprite overload.

Powerups

K  - Kill all enemies on the screen.

N  - +1000 pts.

S ,  T  - Weapon pickups.

Unused Graphics

General

The unused frames for the players death animation, which is closer to how it appears in the arcade version. In this port, the animation has been simplified, so the enemy soldiers can use it too.

Map Screen

Normal

Unused

The map segment has graphics for the player going upwards, however there's not enough space to give a separate palette for the legs. The game only uses the horizontal variant of the sprite.

5th Area

Two different sized graphics of the players getting into the minecart... or falling into it after being thrown by Plow Brothers from the previous Area.  What's interesting is that  Castro  Player 2 has unique tiles here instead of being a replica of  Guevara  Player 1. Again, these graphics don't seem to be designed to have multiple palettes.

The enemy soldiers were set to appear during the minecart section, possibly planned to have more than one single rail before it was turned into a bonus level. Instead of the soldier being overlaid into the minecart, the graphics contains a piece of it, meant to be combined with the rest of the minecart tiles. The body is drawn a bit differently in compare to how it normally appears in the game.

10th Area

The final boss of the game,  Batista  Dictator running away. This was supposed to be used after all of his turrets on the roof were destroyed before the second phase was added, where he fights to the death.

The graphics for an unused boss! In the arcade version, the last area is guarded by bigger tanks. This could have been an unique incarnation of them in this port as a mini boss before facing the Dictator. No code was found related to it and the boss was probably replaced by the set of 4 turrets blocking the path, followed by the exact same set right after that.

Unused Music

Track 09 in the NSF isn't used. It might have been meant as a stage theme or a boss music. it can be heard in the game by setting the value to

1B

at the RAM address

0100

and make the game play any sound effect.

Regional Differences

Title

Guevara

Guerrilla War  (US)

Guerrilla War  (Spanish/Australia)

The background of the title screen is teal in  Guevara , but it's blue in  Guerrilla War . The logo for the latter has a darker palette and is framed by a fireball that flashes red and white, while the logo for  Guevara  isn't animated.

The Spanish and Australian versions uses the  Guerrilla War  logo, but with different copyright text: "©1988 SNK Corporation / Licensed By Nintendo".

Curiously, the splash screen that appears after the SNK logo refers to the game as  Guerrilla War  regardless of the region.

Character Names

Guevara

Guerrilla War

On the score screen, the heroes are explicitly called Guevara and Castro in Japan. They became Player 1 and Player 2 for international releases, disguising the game's connection to the Cuban Revolution only slightly.

Sasuke vs. Commander

A minigame based on  Sasuke vs. Commander,  an early SNK arcade game, is hidden inside the Japanese version! According to  an interview from 2001 , programmer "Kin-chan" (presumably Yukio Kaneda, if the hidden message above is any indication) insisted on adding this in return for taking up the job to program the Famicom port of  Guerrilla War  in just two months. To access it, do the following:

At the player selection screen, hold  A + B  and press  Start  to trigger the Level and Difficulty Select cheat.

Set to stage 5.

Now, hold  Up + A + B  on controllers 1 and 2, and then press  Start  on controller 1.

The ROM also includes the necessary font and space in the side bar for a score, an alternate screen layout, and multiple frames of animation for Sasuke and the ninjas, but none of it was used. It's likely that the developers had planned a more full-fledged port, but simply ran out of time.

Most of the game's graphics and screen layouts remain in the US ROM, but the program code was either disabled or removed.

To do:  explain, maybe it does more

While the game does not display your score, the main game will display it in place of your high score.

Credits

Guevara

Guerrilla War

The North American version changed Fly Garuda to Ninja Sasuke and added Uncle Boo Boo.

Epilogue

To do:  This needs to be retaken from the original game and not a translation.

The Japanese version has an extra epilogue after the credits.

References

↑

1.0

1.1

1.2

GDR ファミリーコンピュータ ソフト一覧 1988年 - FAMILY COMPUTER Software List 1988

↑

2.0

2.1

NES Games

↑

Guerrilla War - RF Generation

↑

Guerrilla War - NesCartDB . " Est First Run

December 1991"

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Guerrilla_War_(NES)&oldid=1904734 "

Categories :

Games developed by SNK

Games published by SNK

NES games

Games released in 1988

Games released in December

Games released on December 26

Games with hidden developer messages

Games with hidden developer credits

Games with unused game types

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused music

Games with hidden level selects

Games with regional differences

To do

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden developer credits

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden developer messages

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused game types

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused music

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by SNK

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by SNK

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1988

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December  >  Games released on December 26

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 18 August 2025, at 13:28.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers