Plok - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Plok

From The Cutting Room Floor

(Redirected from  Plok! )

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Plok

Also known as : Plok! (title screen)  Developer :

Software Creations

&#91;1&#93;

Publishers :

Tradewest

&#91;2&#93;

(US),

Nintendo

&#91;3&#93;

(EU),

Activision

&#91;4&#93;

(JP)  Platform :

SNES

Released in JP : December 10,&#160;1993  &#91;4&#93;

Released in US : September 1993  &#91;2&#93;

Released in EU : December 1993  &#91;5&#93;

This game has  unused areas .

This game has  unused code .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused text .

This game has  debugging material .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has  anti-piracy features .

This game has a prerelease article

This game has a notes page

To do:

Regional differences and more unused graphics such as the colored Grandpappy Plok.

The  Zee-3 website , until recently had concept art and ideas for the cancelled  Fleapit  arcade game that ultimately became  Plok! , grab everything there once it returns... Someday.

The story of

Plok  :

One day, Plok, King of Akrillic, noticed his flag was missing. It was the work of those dastardly Bobbins Brothers! After beating them up with his amazing detachable arms and legs, he went back to his island to find that he had been diddled—horrible blue Fleas had taken over his island! Now, Plok begins a great adventure to video game obscurity (and later  webcomic stardom ).

Oh, and it has an  amazing  soundtrack, by the same guy who did  the NES Pictionary game , along with his brother who is apparently just as good.

Contents

1

Sub-Pages

2

Disabled Cheats

3

Test Level

4

Cut Levels

4.1

Brendammi Bog

4.2

Badream Fens

4.3

Breezy Beach

5

Unused Text

5.1

Super Off Road  High Score Screen

5.2

Level Select

5.3

Demo Text

5.4

Miscellaneous

6

Regional Differences

6.1

Gameplay

6.2

Copyright Screen

6.3

Activision Logo

6.4

Level Intro

6.5

Options Screen

7

Error Messages

7.1

Anti-Piracy

7.2

Region Error

8

References

Sub-Pages

Prerelease Info

Notes

Disabled Cheats

At one point during development, several cheat codes could be entered while the game was paused. These were disabled in the retail game by removing the call to the subroutine that checks the buttons and activates the cheats; however, with the following patch, these can be restored to full functionality (apply to an unheadered US ROM):

Download Plok-Cheats.ips

File:

Plok-Cheats.ips (46 bytes) ( info )

After applying the patch, pause the game and enter one or more of the following codes (each letter corresponds to a face or directional button, excluding the L and R shoulder buttons). Note that Plok will lose some health every time a code is entered, so use these with caution!

Code

Message

Effect

RUBBADUX

NINTENDO POWER

Warp to  Test Drive

YABADABA

JOHN'S CHEAT

16 Buddy Hornets

BRUXYALL

LYNDON'S CHEAT

160 shells

URBADLAD

BAD INFLUENCE!

13 seconds of invulnerability

"Nintendo Power" would of course be referring to Nintendo's long-running official magazine, and "Bad Influence!" is likely a reference to  the videogame-oriented kid's TV show  that was running in the UK at the time. Presumably at some point these would have been exclusively revealed through these outlets as a promotional stunt before the whole system was scrapped. As for the other two disabled cheats, "John" would be either designer and co-creator John Pickford or programmer John Buckley, while "Lyndon" would be artist Lyndon Brooke.

(Source: Rachel Mae)

Test Level

This level is a test of all of the various costumes and vehicles in the game, using the "Fleapit" level tileset. There's no exit and no enemies of any kind, just a very large level to test in.

To access this level, either enter the cheat code listed above, or use the  Pro Action Replay  code

7E084828  .

This map shows which vehicles/costumes are located where in the level. Click to enlarge the image.

Cut Levels

Three levels were started on but never completed. Some data for these levels is still in the game. They're meant to take place after Rockyfella but before the Fleapit.

These cut levels have map locations programmed in, but there's no flag poles, although flags  do  appear when you move from one cut level to another. None of them have unique text either&#8212;they use the default dialogue from the start of the game.

None of the levels have any layout data, instead appearing as a mess of random tiles. They all play track 0, the track used for Plok's House and Venge Thicket.

According to  a comment by Ste Pickford on the Pickford Bros.' site  (which is currently inaccessible due to a still-ongoing site revamp), it's likely that no work was done on these levels, other than deciding on their names, before they were scrapped.

Brendammi Bog

Interestingly, the level is still mentioned in the game's intro, even though the actual level was cut.

Pro Action Replay code:

7E08481D

Start of Map Path

End of Map Path

Badream Fens

Pro Action Replay code:

7E08481E

Interestingly, both Brendammi Bog and Badream Fens load this to VRAM at the start of the level. It looks like the unique graphics for these two levels were never completed or, indeed, started.

Start of Map Path

End of Map Path

There's a slight graphical error with the map path to Badream Fens. The tiles below the Fleapit are set to appear on top of sprites, in order to hide Plok when he jumps in. However, the map path to this level crosses those tiles, so they cover him up when they really shouldn't. It's possible that the Fleapit was not originally intended to appear in the bog, and was moved there after the extra levels were cut.

Breezy Beach

The last stop on Plok's lost levels tour, this would have been another beach level.

This level is also mentioned in the intro. Odd that two of the three locations named are from cut levels. Guess they wanted them in the game in  some  form.

Pro Action Replay code:

7E08481F

Start of Map Path

End of Map Path

Unused Text

Super Off Road  High Score Screen

This needs some investigation.

Discuss ideas and findings on the  talk page .

Specifically:  Is this just leftover data, or did they plan to migrate the high score screen from  Super Off Road ?

A large amount of leftover code and text from the high score screen in  Super Off Road  remains in the ROM for reasons unknown. The text starts at ROM address

0x8046  .

Level Select

Various text related to a level select starts at ROM address

0xB894  .

0xB894

LEVEL SELECT

0xB8CB

0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 I J K L M N O P Q R S T U A B C D E F G H V W X Y Z&#160;! '&#160;?

This doesn't seem to fit with the level select. The layout and selection of characters seem to suggest a password or name entry screen.

0xB91B

COTTON ISLAND
AKRYLIC 1-8

AKRYLIC 9-16 
PLOK'S LEGACY
FLEAPIT TEST

A list of the game's areas that would have appeared on the level select screen. Note the alternate spelling of "Akrillic".

0xB7B8

LEVEL 1!
LEVEL 2!
LEVEL 3!
LEVEL 4!
LEVEL 5!
LEVEL 6!
LEVEL 7!
LEVEL 8!

This text is stored with the level names that appear in-game, but is referenced in the same pointer table used for the list of areas above.

0xB960

15.42  5 MAY '93

Presumably the game's build date and time, around four months before the game's US release. This is the same in every release of the game, meaning it was likely updated by hand.

Demo Text

Text that was intended to appear during the demo sequences that teach you how to play the game.

0xBFFF

SHOOTING A THIRD TIME
WILL BURST THE FRUIT
OR REVEAL A SECRET BONUS!

The final game only tells you to shoot the fruit twice to inflate it.

0xC044

OH DEAR! NOT THIS ONE.

This appears immediately after the line above, and would have been shown after the fruit was burst.

The final demo's input script abruptly ends with Plok jumping up to shoot the fruit a third time; changing ROM address

0x2CE35

to

$FF

will extend the demo long enough to show the final two lines. (Modifying the script to make Plok shoot the fruit reveals that this particular fruit  does  lead to a bonus stage, which breaks the demo; this may explain why the demo was modified.)

Miscellaneous

0xBD63

J.L.D.P.BUCKLEY!

This is stored immediately before the first line of demo text, and does not have a proper

$FF

terminator like the rest of the game's text. "J" and "L" likely refer to John and Lorraine Buckley (credited under "program and design" and "thanks to", respectively); the other two initials are unknown.

Regional Differences

Gameplay

The US and Japanese versions of the game start the player with three lives. This was bumped to four in the European version.

Copyright Screen

US

Europe

Japan

The font used on the copyright screen and elsewhere in the US and European versions (e.g. on the overworld map) was changed in the Japanese version, possibly for enhanced readability. Due to the game being distributed by Activision in Japan, the "Licensed by Nintendo" text was removed and replaced with "Sublicensed to Activision". The European version was licensed to and published by Nintendo, necessitating a two-letter change.

Activision Logo

Unsurprisingly, the Activision logo was added between the copyright and title screens in the Japanese version.

Level Intro

The Japanese version "types out" the name of the current level on a separate blue screen before the level starts, rather than displaying it on top of the gameplay.

Options Screen

International

Japan

In the Japanese version, the font was changed, the "Skill Level" heading was removed, and the "Child's Play" difficulty setting was changed to the more straightforward(/less insulting) "Easy". The difficulty settings are also "typed out" letter-by-letter, much like the level names in-game.

Error Messages

Anti-Piracy

Japan

US

Europe

The game checks for SRAM both at startup and once per frame during gameplay by attempting to write values to

$700000  . If the writes are successful, the game locks up with a flashing "ILLEGAL GAME CONFIGURATION" message.

The game also occasionally performs a checksum on this routine, and displays the same message if it fails. This can be seen by entering the Pro Action Replay code

82850800

and resetting the game.

(Source: Rachel Mae, nensondubois)

Region Error

Japan

International

Attempting to play the Japanese or American versions of the game on a European console and vise versa will lock up the game on the above screen on boot.

References

↑

Plok Archive . "We made two games starring Plok, the unreleased coin-op Fleapit whilst at Zippo Games, and the 1993 SNES title, Plok whilst at Software Creations."

↑

2.0

2.1

Super NES Games

↑

Nintendo Magazine System (UK) Issue 14, p. 92

↑

4.0

4.1

GDR スーパーファミコン ソフト一覧 1993年 - SUPER FAMICOM Software List 1993

↑

END ZONE . Nintendo Game Zone Issue 14, p. 55 . "Out: December"

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Plok&oldid=2007798 "

Categories :

Games developed by Software Creations

Games published by Tradewest

Games published by Nintendo

Games published by Activision

SNES games

Games released in 1993

Games released in September

Games with unused areas

Games with unused code

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused text

Games with debugging functions

Games with regional differences

Games with anti-piracy methods

To do

To investigate

Cleanup  >  To do

Cleanup  >  To investigate

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with anti-piracy methods

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused areas

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused code

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Throwback Entertainment  >  Games developed by Acclaim Entertainment  >  Games developed by Acclaim Studios Manchester  >  Games developed by Creations  >  Games developed by Software Creations

Games  >  Games by platform  >  SNES games

Games  >  Games by publisher

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Microsoft  >  Games published by Activision Blizzard  >  Games published by Activision

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Nintendo

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Warner Bros. Games  >  Games published by Midway Games  >  Games published by Midway Home Entertainment  >  Games published by Williams Entertainment  >  Games published by Tradewest

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1993

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in September

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 7 January 2026, at 13:38.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers