Mitsume ga Tooru (NES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Mitsume ga Tooru (NES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

(Redirected from  Mitsume ga Tooru )

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Mitsume ga Tooru

Developer :

Natsume

Publisher :

Tomy

Platform :

NES

Released in JP : July 17,&#160;1992

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  debugging material .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has a  hidden level select .

Mitsume ga Tooru

is an action-platformer based on the manga series by Osamu Tezuka also known as  The Three-eyed One .

Contents

1

Test Mode

1.1

Bank Test

1.2

OBJ Test

1.3

Sound Test

1.4

Map Test

1.5

Effect Test

2

Stage Select

3

Disabled In-Game Debug

4

Unused Cutscene

5

Unused Graphics

6

Disabled Cheat

Test Mode

Test sounds and music, look at the maps, view CHR and even cutscenes. At the title screen hold simultaneously  A + B  buttons on the second controller,  Select  on the first controller and then press  Start  on the first controller.

Bank Test

View CHR data. Banks can be viewed using the  Up  and  Down  buttons. Double values will only be shown.

OBJ Test

Every sprite in the game can be viewed. Move with the  D-Pad , select the next sprite with  A  or go back with  B . The  Select  button will mirror the sprite.

Sound Test

Listen to music and sound effects. Pretty obvious.  Left  and  Right  will select the song while  Up  and  Down  select between music and sound effects. The  B  button will play the selected tune or sound effect, while the  A  button will give a fade-out effect. The first music track is 05. Music and sound effects can overlap.

Map Test

Select the Map area with  Select  and move around using the  D-Pad .

Effect Test

Shows the credits.

(Source: abystus)

Stage Select

At the title screen hold  A + B  on controller 2 and press on controller 1  A, A, A, A, B, B, B, B, A, B, A, B, A, B, A, B .

Disabled In-Game Debug

Use the  Game Genie  code

XTKGIZAV

to re-enable in-game debug commands. During the game, on controller 2 press:

A  or  B  to increase money amount by 10 and 1000 correspondingly.

Left  to toggle the CPU usage meter on/off (see the screenshot).

Up  to skip current level.

Right  to give all weapons, a bird and a powerful spear.

Down  to refill a health bar.

(Source: CaH4e3)

Unused Cutscene

The game features four cutscenes which play after beating each of the first four levels. The scenes include the picture of the defeated boss and some text. The final stage, however, has no such cutscene, and the game proceeds directly to the ending sequence. Despite this, there is data for a fifth cutscene in the ROM.

The picture tilemap for this cutscene is the same as for the fourth stage, and the actual tilemap and CHR data bank are completely removed. (The latter is now used for the copyright text on the title screen.) You can still enable and view this scene by manipulating the cutscene index value (ram address

$C8  , value 4) at address

$9119

when starting a new cutscene.

Curiously, the text appears to contain some typos, such as つた instead of ついた (akin to "arved" instead of "arrived"), and ぜきそいう instead of せきぞう (akin to "statuie" instead of "statue").

Original

Kanji

English

ふねのつたばしょは、もあい　のならぶ いーすたーとう　であった。 そのせきぞうとおもわれていた　もあいが

船の着(い)た場所は、モアイの並ぶ イースター島であった。 その石像と思われていたモアイが

The ship made berth at the Moai-lined Easter Island. The Moai, thought to be only statues,

Original

Kanji

English

いきなりおそいかかってきた。 しかし、しょせんせきぞいはせきぞう。 しゃらくのてきではなかった。

いきなり襲いかかってきた。 しかし、所詮石(像)は石像。 洒落の敵ではなかった。

suddenly mounted an attack. But, in the end, the statues were just statues. They weren't real enemies after all.

(Source: CaH4e3)

Unused Graphics

The 1K CHR banks

$78

and

$79

contain unused CHR data for an unknown cutscene, which is similar to the final ending cutscene. The final ending cutscene is implemented with sprites instead of background graphics. It's possible these are the missing graphics for the stage 5 ending cutscene mentioned above.

(Source: CaH4e3)

The CHR $50 bank contains unused CHR data for an unknown level.

Unused frames of summoning the spear.

Unused sprite. Sodom.

(Source: Dmi-3)

Disabled Cheat

Use the Game Genie codes

ILVAGOOY+XAVAIPOA

to replace the stage select cheat with the disabled one. Hold  A + B  in controller 2, then press  A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A  on controller 1. The color of the title screen letters will change to purple. Unfortunately, this is all what is left from appears to be a "Special mode" of this game. There is no code to use the corresponding cheat flag at all.

(Source: CaH4e3)

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Mitsume_ga_Tooru_(NES)&oldid=1757651 "

Categories :

Games developed by Natsume

Games published by Tomy

NES games

Games released in 1992

Games released in July

Games released on July 17

Games with unused graphics

Games with debugging functions

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with hidden level selects

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by NatsumeAtari  >  Games developed by Natsume

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Takara Tomy  >  Games published by Tomy

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1992

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in July

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in July  >  Games released on July 17

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 28 December 2024, at 01:54.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers