Kid Icarus - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Kid Icarus

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Kid Icarus: Angel Land Story

Also known as : Hikari Shinwa: Palutena no Kagami (JP)  Developers :

Nintendo R&D1  ,

TOSE

&#91;1&#93;

Publisher :

Nintendo

Platforms :

Famicom Disk System  ,

NES

Released in JP : December 19,&#160;1986 (FDS)  Released in US : July 1987  Released in EU : February 15,&#160;1988

This game has  debugging material .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has  revisional differences .

This game has a Data Crystal page

Kid Icarus

is the story of a winged angel named Pit ( not  "Kid Icarus") who is sent by the goddess Palutena to protect Angel Land from an onslaught of beasts, most recognizably Eggplant Wizards.

Contents

1

Reaper Hidden Sprite

2

Regional Differences

2.1

Music

2.1.1

Title Screen

2.1.2

Lose a Life

2.1.3

Victory/Stage Clear

2.2

Title Screen

2.3

Select Screen

2.4

Menu Screen

2.5

Endings

2.6

Other

3

Revisional Differences

4

References

Reaper Hidden Sprite

The Reaper enemies shoot out sprites which correspond to their sight hit detection. These use tile

$5F  , which is normally blank; replacing the empty tile with any other graphic (e.g. a checkerboard in the above screenshot) will make them visible. Because sprites can't be used for collision detection on NES hardware, it's likely these sprites were assigned a visible graphic during development for debugging purposes.

These sprites are shot in an alternating high/low pattern, as seen in the screenshot. These sprites will disappear if they touch any non-empty background tile, at which point the Reaper immediately throws out another one.

Game Genie code

ZEXEXVYS

will modify the routine that writes tile

$5F

to use tile

$0A

(a placeholder square) instead, rendering the sprites visible.

(Source: DukeDonuts, Rachel Mae)

Regional Differences

To do:  Rip more of the NES and FDS audio to compare.

Music

The Famicom Disk System version notably has more instruments than its NES counterpart due to using the FDS' extra wavetable sound channel. Interestingly, these tracks would become the variants which would also be referenced in

Kid Icarus: Uprising  .

Title Screen

FDS

NES

Lose a Life

FDS

NES

Victory/Stage Clear

FDS

NES

Title Screen

FDS

NES

The original Japanese title translates to " Light Myth: Palutena's Mirror ". Besides the title change, the English logo uses a heart piece and a pegasus wing for a stylized "i" and "r". In addition, the green decoration received darker shading, the clouds and copyright were repositioned, and the trademark symbol was redrawn.

Select Screen

FDS

NES

The Japanese version features a File Select screen with three save slots, which displays your score and how many hearts you've collected. A top five high score list is also present.

The NES version uses a password system instead, though the manual still references the high score list.

Menu Screen

FDS

NES

The menu screen in the FDS version displays your file name at the top. The blue bricks were changed to gray and instead of only white text, the NES version received blue and beige colored text. Also, the "MAP" text is always visible in the NES version; in the FDS version, it only appears when you have obtained one.

Additionally, the "Check Sheet" (MAP) text is green in the FDS version.

Endings

The ending requirements were changed between versions:

In the FDS version, your Strength, Endurance, and Continues determine the outcome (+10 points for each level-up in Strength and Endurance, -1 point for each Continue).

In the NES version, your Hearts, Strength, Endurance, and Weapons determine the outcome (the ending improves with each maxed-out stat).

Also, the FDS version contains a "worst ending" which was removed from the NES version, while the NES version contains a "best ending" that is not in the FDS version:

FDS (Worst Ending)

NES (Best Ending)

The light of peace has returned to Angel Land!
 However, your fight doesn't end here.
 You must keep battling to protect this peace!

All five endings in the FDS version consist of a screen with Pit and Palutena against a black background. In the NES version, some nice graphics were added and the best ending and the other four endings' background differ slightly from each other. In addition, the message was moved to a separate screen and a staff roll was added.

Other

The Japanese version was only released for the FDS, and that version contains not only an enhanced soundtrack made in mind for the Disk System's improvements over the base unit, but took advantage of the controller's microphone to haggle with the shopkeepers (in the NES version, you do this by holding  A + B  on Controller 2). The  3D Classics  release on the Nintendo 3DS is mostly based on the FDS version with the save system and audio intact; however, the last level, endings, and haggling method are more similar to the NES version.

A few changes were made to the last level in the American version: the screen scrolls automatically rather than based on the player's movement, you no longer have to hold the Jump button to fly, you can fly through the bricks and pillars, and enemy patterns have been changed. To compensate for the earlier difficulty reduction changes, players will need to hit enough enemies to face the final boss. Additionally, when you defeat the boss, the eyeball reveals a collapsing Medusa.

Revisional Differences

To do:  Investigate the differences between Rev 0 and Rev 1 of the NES version.

As revealed in  Nintendo Power  #10's "Classified Information" section, there's a password that starts the game on stage 2-4, enables invincibility, and has a pretty ridiculous score multiplier:

ICARUS FIGHTS
MEDUSA ANGELS

This password doesn't work on the Rev 1 version of the game, nor the Virtual Console version (which is based on Rev 1).

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

References

↑

GDRI

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Kid Icarus

series

NES

Kid Icarus

Game Boy

Of Myths and Monsters

Nintendo 3DS

3D Classics: Kid Icarus &#160;&#8226;  Uprising

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Kid_Icarus&oldid=2007755 "

Categories :

Games developed by Nintendo R&D1

Games developed by TOSE

Games published by Nintendo

Famicom Disk System games

NES games

Games released in 1986

Games released in December

Games released on December 19

Games with debugging functions

Games with regional differences

Games with revisional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Kid Icarus series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with revisional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Nintendo  >  Games developed by Nintendo EPD  >  Games developed by Nintendo SPD  >  Games developed by Nintendo R&D1

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by TOSE

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Nintendo

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1986

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December  >  Games released on December 19

Games  >  Games by series  >  Kid Icarus series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games  >  Famicom Disk System games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 7 January 2026, at 12:30.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers