Power Blade - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Power Blade

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Power Blade

Also known as : Power Blazer (JP)  Developers :

Taito  ,

Natsume

Publisher :

Taito

Platforms :

NES  ,

Arcade  &#160;(PlayChoice-10)  Released in JP : April 20,&#160;1990  Released in US : March 1991  Released in EU : January 23,&#160;1992

This game has  hidden developer credits .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a prerelease article

This game has a Data Crystal page

Power Blade

has you play as NOVA, a buff white soldier guy who must stop aliens from harming Earth, armed to the teeth with...boomerangs.

Contents

1

Sub-Pages

2

Sound Test

3

Hidden Credits

4

Regional Differences

4.1

Title Screen

4.2

Stage Intro

4.3

Title Demo Cutscene

4.4

Music

4.4.1

Replaced Music

4.4.2

Exclusive music

4.5

Sound Effects

4.6

Map Screen

4.7

Gameplay

4.8

Stage Order

4.9

Bosses

4.10

Epilogue/Credits

Sub-Pages

Prerelease Info

Sound Test

Power Blazer  (Japan)

Power Blade  (US/EU)

At the title screen, hold  Left + A + B  on Controller 2 and press  Start  on Controller 1. Press  Up/Down  to select the music and  A  to play it.

The sound test looks a bit different in  Power Blazer , and most of the music tracks have names instead of just "BGM01"/"BGM02"/etc. The sound test in  Power Blade  simply replaces the titles with their listings in hexadecimal instead, "TYPE" indicating sound effects while "BGM" indicates music tracks.

Comparing both games' sound tests, overall  Power Blade  has more sound effects and music than its earlier predecessor  Power Blazer .

The following table lists tracks in order from their respective sound tests. Notes column lists what each abbreviation given in the  Power Blazer  sound test means, along with any tracks new to  Power Blade . Track titles listed next to BGMs are taken from  Rom Cassette Disc In TAITO Vol.2  (CDST-10044).

Sound Test

Power Blazer (Japan)

Power Blade (US/EU)

Notes

PAUSE

TYPE01

Pause sound

DAMEGE

TYPE02

Damage taken - DIFF

SUTA

TYPE03

DIFF

BOOMER

TYPE04

LIFE

TYPE05

DIFF - lower latter

ALLOUT

TYPE06

DIFF

ITEM

TYPE07

DIFF - higher latter

ONEUP

TYPE08

BSET

TYPE09

DIFF - slapback latter

HODAI

TYPE0A

DIFF - slightly lower pitch latter

ZDAM

TYPE0B

TYPE0C

TYPE0D

US/EU only - Intruder Alert (Alarm)

ZOUT

TYPE0E

PRESS

TYPE0F

BOUND

TYPE10

BURNER

TYPE11

SELECT

TYPE12

OK

TYPE13

TAIHO

TYPE14

POUT

Player Out different "Miss" / 「ミス」

TYPE15

DOOR

TYPE16

BOUT

TYPE17

boss out?

ZABA

TYPE18

ZABAN

TYPE19

CHOICE

TYPE1A

DIFF - higher latter

BUU

TYPE1B

DRAGON

TYPE1C

RAIJIN

TYPE1D

TYPE1E

TYPE1F

TYPE20

TYPE21

TYPE22

Disarming the sector computer

CENTER

BGM02

Central control center / 「総合コントロールセンター」 Used in Sector 7 in  Power Blade

BIO

BGM03

Life research / 「生命研究」 Used in Sector 3 in  Power Blade

BASE

BGM04

"Military base" / 「軍基地」 Used in Sector 5 in  Power Blade

ROCKET

BGM05

Space development / 「宇宙開発」 Used in Sector 1 in  Power Blade

ENERGY

BGM06

Energy Development / 「エネルギー開発」 Used in Sector 2 in  Power Blade

DEMO0

BGM07

"Well!Well!Well!" / 「Well!Well!Well!」 Plays in cutscene before entering final area / Sector 7

LIFE

BGM08

Residential area / 「居住区」 Used in Sector 6 in  Power Blade

THESKY

BGM09

Weather control research / 「天気コントロール研究」 Used in Sector 4 in  Power Blade

SELBGM

BGM01

Select BGM - used for "Stage Select"  「ステージセレクト」

DEMO

Used for "Epilogue" / 「エピローグ」

BGM0A

Plays during Sector Disarmed cutscene

BOSS

BGM0B

Boss BGM / 「ボス」

BBOSS

BGM0C

Final Boss (after transformation of David Uncle)  「最終ボス（デビット・アンクル変身後）」

OVER

Game Over BGM / 「ゲームオーバー」 different for both games

BGM0D

PCLR

Player Clear "Clear" / 「クリア」 Plays after beating area, entirely new in US/EU version

BGM0E

BGM0F

New! used in US/EU opening

ENDING

Ending BGM / 「エンディング」 Plays during credits New song for US/EU version, used in epilogue cutscene

BGM10

TYPE23

Hidden Credits

Present at

0x1C010

in all versions:

TOSHIKAZU IWASA

Regional Differences

This page or section needs more images.

There's a whole lotta words here, but not enough pictures.  Please fix this .

Specifically:  Lots of comparisons between  Power Blazer  and  Power Blade  to be made here. Add screenshots of ending cutscene, bosses and, if possible, level layout comparisons.

The original Japanese release was titled  Power Blazer  and was a fairly shameless  Mega Man  ripoff. The overseas versions were retitled  Power Blade , and the game underwent one of the most extensive localizations in NES history. Graphics, gameplay, music and more were all changed for the overseas versions.

Title Screen

Japan

US/Europe

Stage Intro

In Power Blazer, this appears by remaining at the title screen. In Power Blade, it appears upon getting  past  the title screen. Alternately, if you let the game sit on the title screen, you get a new story intro.

Japan

US

Title Demo Cutscene

While much of the story in  Power Blazer  was relegated to the manual, with hardly any dialogue in-game,  Power Blade  elaborates on its story much more in-game, adding more cutscenes and in-game dialogue.

Most importantly, it adds an extra intro to the title screen, moving the previous cutscene to the start screen afterwards.

Music

Replaced Music

Some of the music in  Power Blade  has been replaced entirely with new pieces that sound less happy-go-lucky and more somber and foreboding, perhaps to match with the more serious tone and setting.

Game Over :

Power Blazer  (Japan)

Power Blade  (US/EU)

OVER

BGM0D

Player Clear :

Power Blazer  (Japan)

Power Blade  (US/EU)

PCLR

BGM0E

However, this does not necessarily mean the songs added in  Power Blade  are used in the exact same place as the songs replaced, as shown with what's used for the epilogue cutscene in both games.

Epilogue : While "BGM10" replaces "ENDING" in the sound test, it is not actually used for the credits like the latter in  Power Blazer . Since  Power Blade  has no credits, the song is used instead for the epilogue cutscene that plays after beating the final boss.

Power Blazer  (Japan)

Power Blade  (US/EU)

DEMO

BGM10

Exclusive music

There are also a few tracks that are exclusive to either the Japanese or American/European versions as well.

Ending : This track is used for the staff credits in  Power Blazer . While BGM10 takes its place in the  Power Blade  sound test, it is used for the epilogue cutscene instead, as there are no credits in  Power Blade .

Power Blazer  (Japan)  — ENDING

Opening : This song is used in the brand new title intro demo added to  Power Blade .

Power Blade  (US/EU)  — BGM0F

Sector Disarmed : This song takes the place of DEMO in the sound test. A variation of the new opening theme, it plays during the Sector Disarmed cutscene that plays after beating a sector's boss in  Power Blade .

Power Blade  (US/EU)  — BGM0A

Sound Effects

In addition to the music, some sound effects are different in  Power Blade , either being updated from  Power Blazer  or are entirely new.

Player Out  - This sound effect that plays when the player's health is completely depleted has been made less "cartoony" in  Power Blade .

Power Blazer  (Japan)

Power Blade  (US/EU)

POUT

TYPE15

Map Screen

The map screen was completely overhauled. It's now far more helpful, as well as more detailed.

While navigation is handled the same way (press  Left  or  Right  to either move the cursor counterclockwise or clockwise respectively), the stage select cursor is different. The player sprite is used as the level select cursor on the Power Blazer map screen, but it's replaced by a rectangular reticle in  Power Blade  instead.

Japan

US/Europe

Gameplay

Power Blade is pretty much a completely different game compared to Power Blazer: different hero, different enemies, different levels, different graphics etc. and a significant improvement in gameplay controls.

Differences

Japan

US/Europe

Status Bar

It shows only the player health and the power meter. Bombs and energy refills are always visible. There is a scoring system.

There is also a health meter for the stage boss. Bombs and energy refills can only have the selected one visible. There is also a timer and the remaining durability of your power suit.

Boomerang Attack

The player can only throw one boomerang straight forward. It is possible to change the penetration ability with corresponding items, where a non-penetrating boomerang can stick at the back of enemy and hit multiple times. The power regeneration is slow.

The player can throw boomerangs in 8 directions, up to 3 at the same time with powerups. It always penetrates. The power regeneration is fast.

Power Suit

Does not exist.

Can be found at fixed locations. When wearing, attack becomes a powerful wave with infinite range. Armor will be lost after taking 3 hits.

Special Items

Bombs and energy refills are shown as badges with "B" and "E" letters. Both are only found in fixed locations.

Bombs look like grenades and can be dropped by common enemies. Energy refills are shaped like can of rations and be placed at fixed locations.

Stage Layout

Each stage is linear. Simply survive to the last door and fight the boss. Falling off the screen returns to lower area.

The first 6 stages are bigger. The player must find the agent to get the key card in order to access the boss door. Falling off the screen kills.

Expert Mode

Does not exist.

When enabled, player takes knockback upon damage, and stage time limit is reduced from 999 to 300 units.

(Source: Hardcore Gaming 101 ( Article ,  Comparisons ),  Video Game Den )

Stage Order

The order and placement of the stages on the map has been significantly rearranged in  Power Blade . Order is listed from counterclockwise, starting from top left:

Japan

US/EU

Military Base

Sector 1 - Space Center

Weather Control Research

Sector 2 - Energy Development

Residential Area

Sector 3 - Life Research

Life Research

Sector 4 - Weather Control

Space Center

Sector 5 - Military Base

Energy Development

Sector 6 - Residential Area

Control Center

Sector 7 - Control Center

Roughly speaking, the order starting counterclockwise from top left in the Japanese version is:

Military base  ,

Weather control research  ,

Residential area  ,

Life research  ,

Space center  ,

Energy development  , and finally the  Control center .

The order in the US/EU version, now listed under Sectors 1 to 7, is moved to:

Space center  ,

Energy development  ,

Life research  ,

Weather control research  ,

Military base  ,

Residential area  , and finally the  Control center .

Bosses

Some of the bosses and their areas have been redesigned to look less cartoonish and more serious. For instance, the Frankenstein robot boss has been changed from a chibi-style robot to a taller, more Terminator-esque design which only takes damage when you hit its upper body. The beehive boss area has also been changed from a natural-looking honeycomb to a much more mechanical design.
The final boss has a completely different second form between versions, with Power Blazer's being static on the ground and firing rolling bubbles that can be destroyed, and Power Blade's moving left and right in mid-air, shooting a fireball upwards that splits and rains down several smaller fireballs, while steam jets are constantly fired below the ship.

Epilogue/Credits

There is an additional credits cutscene exclusive to  Power Blazer , which plays after the epilogue cutscene, featuring the staff credits for the game accompanied by lighthearted, sometimes comedic pictures featuring the game's bosses. This is completely absent from  Power Blade , which features no staff credits and ends the game on the epilogue cutscene instead.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Power_Blade&oldid=2019729 "

Categories :

Games developed by Taito

Games developed by Natsume

Games published by Taito

NES games

Arcade games

Games released in 1990

Games released in April

Games released on April 20

Games with hidden developer credits

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

Needs more images

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  Needs more images

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden developer credits

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by NatsumeAtari  >  Games developed by Natsume

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Square Enix  >  Games developed by Taito

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by platform  >  Arcade games

Games  >  Games by publisher

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Square Enix  >  Games published by Taito

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1990

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in April

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in April  >  Games released on April 20

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 23 January 2026, at 12:04.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers