Clash at Demonhead - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Clash at Demonhead

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Clash at Demonhead

Also known as : Dengeki: Big Bang! (JP)  Developer :

Vic Tokai

Publisher :

Vic Tokai

Platform :

NES

Released in JP : January 27,&#160;1989  Released in US : January 1990

This game has  debugging material .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a prototype article

To do:  More regional differences (ex. graphical changes and text changes).

A well respected cult-classic,

Clash at Demonhead

is an extended platformer more commonly known as a "metroidvania" these days.

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Test Password

3

Regional Differences

3.1

Title Screen

3.2

Intro

3.3

Names

3.4

Shopkeeper

3.5

Route 4

3.6

Good Ending

3.7

Bad Ending

3.8

Staff Roll

3.9

ROM Header

Sub-Page

Prototype Info

Test Password

TENS AIWA WASU RETA
KOTO WOOM OIDA SUYO

The following password maxes out everything that can be maxed out in the Japanese version. Items, health, money, absolutely everything! Likely used by the programmers to test things out. In Japanese it would be written ("Tensai wa wasureta kotowo omoidasu yo"「天才は忘れたことを思い出すよ」) and means "(I) remember the things the genius forgot".

The US version has all passwords be two characters shorter, and since this secret password is the same here, it only lacks the last two symbols ("TENSA IWAWA SURET AKOTO WOOMO IDASU"), but can be used as well.

(Source:  CaH4e3 )

Regional Differences

Title Screen

The US title screen got a complete redesign and it's also missing the UFO that flies by when you start the game.

Japan

US

Intro

The Japanese version has a scene with Commander Hasslewine (Commander Winestuff in the US version) informing Bang about the mission. This was removed in the US version.

Mobilization Orders No. 2568623
This is confidential, but you have to hurry, so listen up!
Dr. Plum, inventor of the Dead End doomsday bomb, has 
been kidnapped by an evil organization known as the Lawbreakers.
They've barricaded themselves at the foot of the dreaded 
mountain Demon's Head and are demanding surrender!
One blast from that bomb could blow the whole Earth to 
pieces! Attacking them directly is out of the question!
Our scout, Joe, hasn't returned either... 
Now, Bang, you are the only one who can scour the vast 
foothills for the enemy and prevent the explosion!
Show them what the magnificent Lightning Kid will
risk to get the job done. Good luck!
 Commander Hasslewine,

Secret Squadron Sabre-Toothed Tigers

(Japanese translation: N. Onymous)

Names

In the Japanese version, there are two sister Fairies named Faysha and Leticia. The US version turned them both into one character: Faysha.

In the US version, the last boss is merely called "Boss", but in the Japanese version he's called MadGazer.

Japan

US

Dead-End Bomb

Doomsday Bomb

Lawbreakers

Governors

King Medals

Royal Medallions

Commander Hasslewine

Commander Winestuff

Jesus

Tom Guycot

The Elder

The Hermit

Leticia

Faysha

Pii-Tan

Michael

MadGazer

The Boss

Shopkeeper

Japan

US

The shopkeeper's face was  completely  redrawn, becoming a lot less goofy and trading his slight stubble for a full blown moustache, gaining a nose in the process. His daughter Sally's face was also edited, removing the odd smirk and half-closed eyes in favor of a wide smile.

Route 4

In the Japanese version, Route 4 shows a small conversation between the last boss and Professor Plum. This conversation doesn't happen in the US version.

-Meanwhile, at the enemy headquarters...
Professor Plum! Are you awake? Get to work on the Dead End right away.

What's that? I don't know what you're talking about.

Gahahaha! Too late! I've already hypnotized you into making it for us!

Ooooh crap, no way!

(Japanese translation: Gors, N. Onymous)

Good Ending

The good ending is mostly the same in both regions, except for a little message that pops up after the ending and before the credits in the Japanese version.

P.S. All three of them forgot about Joe... Oh well!

(Japanese translation: N. Onymous)

Bad Ending

In the Japanese version, when you trigger the bad ending, you get a text screen followed by the "The End" screen. In the US version, the text screen has been removed and the "The End" screen is missing the mountain and the little UFO.

Japan

US

Scientific progress has been a double-edged sword for humanity. The road to ruin stands back-to-back with advanced civilization... Nothing, from the destruction of natural life on Earth, to the spreading of radioactivity, to abnormal weather events, to the development of murder weapons has stopped mankind from killing one another. The voices of the righteous are constantly drowned out, and those who lose themselves in this false peace, and continue to commit irreversible crimes, view it as little more than somebody else's problem... And so the super-photon bomb Dead End's flash has engulfed the Earth. July 199X -- At last, humanity's own culture has retaliated against it...

(Japanese translation: N. Onymous)

Staff Roll

To do:  Is the data still in the US version or not?

The Japanese version contains a staff roll of the game designers that was cut from the US version.

Game Design 
Outsider Hal

Graphics
Outsider Hal
Gas Tank Yamaguchi 
Linda Linda Kinoshita

Programming 
Zushū-danji (Zushū Boy) Hisamatsu 
Kakko-chan XJ Watanabe 
Suruga-hime (Princess Suruga) Naruchan 
Kazeshitemasu (Cold-Haver) Sanoyan

Sound 
Ojisan (Uncle) Hasuya

Outsider Hal is Haruhiko Kawamura, Linda Linda Kinoshita is Kazuaki Kinoshita, Zushū-danji Hisamatsu is Norihiro Hisamatsu, Suruga-hime Naruchan is Tomiko Narusawa, Kazeshitemasu Sanoyan is Mayumi Sano, and Ojisan Hasuya is Michiharu Hasuya. Most of the staff also worked on  Golgo 13: Top Secret Episode  and  Kid Kool .

(Source: VGMPF  [1] )

(Translation: Mobygames  [2] , N. Onymous)

ROM Header

The  internal ROM header  in the Japanese version,  Dengeki Big Bang! , identifies the game as "BIG VAN". The US version has the name as "DEMON HEAD", and also includes the original Japanese version header at the end of the second-to-last bank.

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Clash_at_Demonhead&oldid=1876050 "

Categories :

Games developed by Vic Tokai

Games published by Vic Tokai

NES games

Games released in 1989

Games released in January

Games released on January 27

Games with debugging functions

Games with regional differences

To do

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Vic Tokai

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Vic Tokai

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1989

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in January

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in January  >  Games released on January 27

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 11 July 2025, at 22:50.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers