Shatterhand - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Shatterhand

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Shatterhand

Also known as : Tokkyuu Shirei Solbrain (JP)  Developer :

Natsume

Publishers :

Angel

(JP),

Jaleco

(US/EU)  Platforms :

NES  ,

Arcade  &#160;(PlayChoice-10)  Released in JP : October 26,&#160;1991  Released in US : December 1991  Released in EU : November 19,&#160;1992

This game has  unused code .

This game has  hidden developer credits .

This game has  hidden development-related text .

This game has  unused enemies .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  debugging material .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a prototype article

Shatterhand

is what you get when you combine  The Six Million Dollar Man  with an '80s action movie cop. Who needs guns when your fists can topple skyscrapers?

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Test Mode

2.1

BGM and Sound Test

2.2

Boss Test

2.3

Other Debug Text

2.4

Leftover Bank/CHR Test Functionality?

3

Unused Logo

4

Unused Text

4.1

Placeholder Text

4.2

Alternate Continue/End Text

4.3

Developer Credits

4.4

Unused Enemy

5

Regional Differences

5.1

Title Screen

5.2

Gameplay Changes

5.3

Levels

5.4

Bosses

5.5

Ending

5.6

Music

5.6.1

Opening

5.6.2

Area C

5.6.3

Leftovers

Sub-Page

Prototype Info

Test Mode

Shatterhand has a test mode available that the developers didn't dummy out before release. To access it, at the "Press Start" screen, press  A, A, A, A, B, B, B, B, A, B, A, B, A, B, A, B . This will enable several minor testing features. Press  Select  to switch between which option you would like to use, and press  Start  to choose.

BGM and Sound Test

Two separate categories, but they function exactly the same.  A  moves the counter up by one,  B  moves the counter down by one,  Select  plays the chosen music or sound, and  Start  exits the menu.

Boss Test

The other options in the menu allow you to fight against the intro boss and the other five bosses on the stage select. Once you defeat them, you will be taken back to the menu screen to fight another or tinker with the rest of the test mode.

Other Debug Text

The strings  BANK TEST  and  CHR TEST  can be found in the US ROM at

0x09EEA

and

0x09F11  , respectively. These are both set to appear at the same screen location as the  BGM TEST  and  SOUND TEST  strings on those tests' respective screens, which means they likely belonged to test screens that were removed from the final game. Only the  BANK TEST  string still exists in the Japanese version.

Leftover Bank/CHR Test Functionality?

Oddly enough, increasing or decreasing the value in the aforementioned BGM and sound tests will also cause the second half of the background pattern table to change, which can only be seen in an emulator with a pattern table viewer. It's possible that this is a leftover remnant of either the bank or CHR test, which would have allowed the developers to view the game's CHR banks.

Unused Logo

Download Shatterhand (Logo Restoration).zip

File:

Shatterhand (Logo Restoration).zip (268 bytes) ( info )

Both the US and Japanese versions contain an unused, unfinished routine to display a Natsume logo at startup, though only the US version contains the actual logo graphics (identical to the logo from

Chaos World  , also released in 1991). The presence of this logo implies that Natsume had originally planned to publish the game themselves before Jaleco eventually stepped in. It can be reenabled in the US version with the following patch:

1C552: 88, FF
1C564: A0, FF
1CCC1: 08
1FF98: A9, 0C, 20, 9D, C4, 20, 0A, 80, A5, 4C, C9, 60, D0, 04, A9, 11
1FFA8: 85, 02, 20, 09, C5, 4C, 1C, C1, E6, 4C, D0, 04, A9, 01, 85, 02, 60

Unused Text

Placeholder Text

Several bits of placeholder text can be found in the US ROM, which were likely displayed before their respective screens/sequences were completed.

At

0x98DC  :

NATSUME LOGO

At

0x9E39  :

ENDING
STAFF ROLL
LAST DEMO

Alternate Continue/End Text

The game contains two copies of the strings  CONTINUE  and  END . The first set, located at

0x9A2E

in the US ROM, is not actually used by the game, and is set to appear at a different screen location than the final text.

Developer Credits

The Japanese version contains some ASCII credit text with staff names (and possibly an early title) at

0x1FC79  .

1991 NAGOYA NATSUME INC
METAL COMMANDO G1
PROGRAM  K.ISHIHARA
DESIGN  S.TANIGUCHI
DESIGN  N.MIZOGUCHI
DESIGN  S.MATSUURA
DESIGN  BIT
SOUND  H.IWATSUKI
MUSIC  I.MIZUTANI

Unused Enemy

To do:  Does this enemy have any properties that remain in the ROM?

This enemy is found in the CHR bank with the rest of  Shatterhand' s Area C-exclusive enemies.

Regional Differences

The Famicom version was published in 1991 by a company called Angel, a now-defunct subsidiary of Bandai which specialized in the publication of licensed titles, as a licensed game based on the tokusatsu  Metal Heroes  series  Super Rescue Solbrain  (特救指令ソルブレイン, Tokkyū Shirei Soruburein). The differences are mainly cosmetic (changing graphics and plot) but there were also several substantial changes, such as which boss appeared in which area. The Famicom version follows the same storyline as the  Solbrain  TV series and features a different opening sequence from the one in Shatterhand. The graphics for most of the characters and items were changed as well.

Despite the earlier release date, the presence of some leftover  Shatterhand  assets in  Solbrain  indicates that the former was developed first.

Title Screen

Solbrain

Shatterhand

Gameplay Changes

Transformation Time

The transformation power up the player (Daiki Nishio/SolBraver in  Solbrain , Steve Hermann in  Shatterhand ) receives for collecting the same letter combination twice in a row lasts double as long in  Solbrain  than it did in  Shatterhand , giving the player a whopping 68 seconds of invincibility! (You'll lose approximately 4.5 seconds of time for each hit you take while transformed, however.)

Enemy HP

Some enemies have HP differences between the two versions of the game:

Enemy

Japan

US

6

8

6

8

4

8

6

14

6

8

Levels

Solbrain

Shatterhand

Area C in  Solbrain  was changed from a submarine into a carnival themed level. The carnival level is much easier difficulty-wise than the replaced submarine level and features different music.

Solbrain

Shatterhand

The final level, Area G, received a futuristic makeover in  Solbrain , a stark contrast to the industrial look the level has in  Shatterhand . The missile you scale shortly before facing the final boss has different text on it in both games.

Bosses

Solbrain

Shatterhand

The boss of Area C in  Shatterhand  became the boss of Area B in  Solbrain , and received a graphical facelift, as did Area E's boss.

Solbrain

Shatterhand

The boss of Area B in  Shatterhand  became the boss of Area C in  Solbrain , and received both graphical and AI changes. The two girls will now jump off the screen and try to land on the player, and no longer transform into a worm-like second form.

Ending

Solbrain

Shatterhand

Music

While most of the soundtrack in both games was kept the same, two songs differ between  Solbrain  and  Shatterhand : the Opening theme and the Area C theme.

Opening

Solbrain

Shatterhand

Area C

Solbrain

Shatterhand

Leftovers

The Satellite obtained by collecting the letter sequence ααα, commonly referred to by a more creative sort as "The Yo-Yo", has an animation for swinging its ball around in  Shatterhand .

However, in  Solbrain , the Satellite that replaces The Yo-Yo has no arms, so the tiles for the swinging animation are covered up with duplicate tiles of the Satellite's idle animation.

There is also a blank spot in  Solbrain' s CHR where The Pogoborgs and Worm were in  Shatterhand . This is possible evidence that  Shatterhand  was in development first.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Shatterhand&oldid=1926926 "

Categories :

Games developed by Natsume

Games published by Angel

Games published by Jaleco

NES games

Arcade games

Games released in 1991

Games released in October

Games released on October 26

Games with unused code

Games with hidden developer credits

Games with hidden development-related text

Games with unused enemies

Games with unused graphics

Games with debugging functions

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with regional differences

To do

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden developer credits

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden development-related text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused code

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused enemies

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by NatsumeAtari  >  Games developed by Natsume

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by platform  >  Arcade games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Bandai Namco  >  Games published by Bandai  >  Games published by MegaHouse Corporation  >  Games published by Angel

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by City Connection  >  Games published by Jaleco

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1991

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in October

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in October  >  Games released on October 26

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 19 September 2025, at 08:48.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers