Friday the 13th (NES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Friday the 13th (NES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Friday the 13th

Developer :

Atlus

Publisher :

LJN

Platform :

NES

Released in US : February 1989

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused items .

This game has a prerelease article

This game has a Data Crystal page

The NES

Friday the 13th

(not to be confused with  Friday the 13th: The Game ) is the infamous result of converting a slasher film into a family-friendly Nintendo game.

Sub-Pages

Prerelease Info

Unused Graphics

A whistle. Most likely intended to be an item, as the graphics are stored right next to those of the used items.

A vial. Also likely an item, for the same reasons as the whistle.

A slightly smaller version of the candles seen in Pamela Voorhees' cave. Unknown if they were meant to be an item or not.

Hidden Camp Map Detail

In-game

Palette adjusted

Junk tiles removed (mockup)

Normally on the camp map, only the small piece of path leading to/from the cave has green shading surrounding it. This part is drawn using sprites instead of the background to get around palette limitations. However, all the background path graphics have matching shading that is never seen because their palette uses the same green twice. When the background palette is edited to use the same dark green, the two path types match much more closely albeit with the sprite path missing the black. The trees also use the same palette, and differentiate themselves more strongly. A large amount of what is normally blank space on screen turns out to be made up of a tile intended for the inside of a north-to-east path bend that incidentally ends up unused in some bends where it would have fit in place. These erroneous tiles largely match up with sections that had features in a  prerelease screenshot . The path shading was already hidden by then, so the wrong tile was able to be used to blank out these sections of the map.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Friday_the_13th_(NES)&oldid=1939884 "

Categories :

Games developed by Atlus

Games published by LJN

NES games

Games released in 1989

Games released in February

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused items

Pages with a Data Crystal link

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused items

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Sega  >  Games developed by Atlus

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Throwback Entertainment  >  Games published by Acclaim Entertainment  >  Games published by LJN

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1989

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in February

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 13 October 2025, at 11:44.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers