Karnov (NES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Karnov (NES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Karnov

Developers :

Data East  ,

Sakata SAS

Publishers :

Namco

(JP),

Data East

(US)  Platform :

NES

Released in JP : December 18,&#160;1987  Released in US : January 22,&#160;1988

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a Data Crystal page

Karnov

puts you in control of the shirtless fireball-throwing Jinborov Karnovski, on a mission to recover the lost Ark of the Covenant, or something.

Contents

1

Level Select

2

Regional Differences

2.1

Introduction

2.2

Ending

2.3

Continues

Level Select

At the title screen, hold  Right ,  Select ,  A  and  B  at the same time on controller 1. On controller 2, press  A  the number of times equaling which stage you want to go, and then  Start  on controller 1.

Do note that this can only be done up to level 9.

(Source: Doodleheimer (GameFAQs))

Regional Differences

Introduction

The entire story of the game was removed in the US release. Along with this, the intro and ending cutscenes were cut out, likely due to the religious tones of the story. They can be re-enabled in the US version using the Game Genie code

AAKITAZA  , although the text wasn't changed so it's just gibberish.

Screenshot

Japanese

Translation

&#160;クリアミナ　ちほうに　ちいさな　まちが　ありました。

There once was a small town in the region of Cleamina.

&#160;あるひ、へいわな　このまちに　アラカタイという まほうつかいが　あらわれて　まちの　ひとびとから たからものを　とりあげて　しまいました。
 ひとびとは　ちからを　あわせて　アラカタイを　たおそう と　しましたが　おこった　アラカタイは　クリアミナちほう の　あちこちに　おそろしい　まものを　はなって　ひとびと を　くるしめはじめたのです。

One day, in this peaceful town, a wizard named Alakatay appeared and took all of the treasures from the town's people.
 The people worked together to defeat Alakatay, but Alakatay happened to be doing horrible things on the other side of the Cleamina region and began cursing the people.

&#160;そんな　ちじょうでの　ありさまを　みていた　かみさまは ひとりの　おとこを　ちじょうに　おろそうと　おもいました 　おとこの　なまえは　カルノフと　いいました。
 カルノフは　にんげんだったころ　わるい　おこないばかり していたために　いまでは　かみさまの　めしつかいとして はたらかされて いたのでした。
よいか　カルノフ　ちじょうでは　つみのない　ひとびとが アラタカイに　くるしめられている。 &#160;おまえは　わたしが　あたえる　まほうのちからで アラタカイを　たおすのだ。
おまえの　ちじょうでの　おこないしだいでは　めしつかい から　かいほうして　やろう。  &#160;さあ　いくのだ！　カルノフ！

Seeing the events going on below, God decided to have a man on the ground and called for a man named Karnov.
 Karnov only did bad things when he was a human being, and now was a servant of God.
Understood, Karnov? To prove your innocence,  you must save the innocent people Alatakay has cursed. You will defeat Alatakay with this magic I've given you. 
Let me release you from your servitude once your deeds are performed.  Well, let's go, Karnov!

Ending

To do:  Pictures and translations of the endings.

Depending on how well the player did at the end, the player ends up with one of three different endings. These were all replaced with a simple text screen saying "CONGRATULATIONS!! THE END".

Continues

The Japanese version allows two continues, and the US version allows infinite continues. (This is inconsistent with the US manual, which states that the game allows  three  continues.) The continue method differs between versions as well: in the Japanese version,  Start  +  Select  must be pressed on the Game Over screen to continue, while the US version simply has a Continue option.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Karnov_(NES)&oldid=1772273 "

Categories :

Games developed by Data East

Games developed by Sakata SAS

Games published by Namco

Games published by Data East

NES games

Games released in 1987

Games released in December

Games released on December 18

Games with hidden level selects

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Data East

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Sakata SAS

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Bandai Namco  >  Games published by Namco

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Data East

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1987

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December  >  Games released on December 18

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 17 January 2025, at 21:04.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers