Contra III: The Alien Wars - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Contra III: The Alien Wars

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Contra III: The Alien Wars

Also known as : Contra Spirits (JP), Super Probotector: Alien Rebels (EU)  Developer :

Konami

Publisher :

Konami

Platform :

SNES

Released in JP : February 28,&#160;1992  Released in US : March 26,&#160;1992  Released in EU : September 12,&#160;1992

This game has  unused text .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a prototype article

This game has a Data Crystal page

Contra

+ 16 bits = Billions of boulders crapped.

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Unused Copyright Warning

3

Regional Differences

3.1

Title Screen

3.2

Introduction

3.3

Cutscenes

3.4

Font

3.5

Characters

3.6

Game Ending

3.6.1

Easy Mode Message

3.6.2

Normal Mode Message

3.6.3

Hard Mode Message

3.6.4

Credits

3.6.5

Ending Celebration

3.6.6

Final Score Screen

3.7

Cheats

3.7.1

30 Lives

3.7.2

Sound Test

3.7.3

Level Select

3.8

Other Changes

Sub-Page

Prototype Info

Unused Copyright Warning

An unused, slightly corrupted arcade-style copyright warning can be found at ROM address

4F838

in all three versions of the game. The readable portion of the text is as follows:

WARNI G
THIS GAME IS FOR SALE AND
USE IN JAPAN ONLY.
COPYRIGHTED MUSIC/
 ORKS IN THIS
GAME AER SEPARATELY OWNED BY
THE AUTHORS.
VIOLATOR  MAY BE SUBJECT TO
SEVERE PENALTIES UNLESS
SPECIALLY AUTHORIZED BY
THEM."

&#169; 1992 KONAMI

For comparison's sake, the standard message used in their arcade games (this instance taken from Asterix, version JAD):

WARNING

THIS GAME IS FOR SALE AND USE IN
JAPAN ONLY.  THE COPYRIGHTED MUSIC/
CHARACTERS/ART WORKS IN THIS GAME
ARE SEPARATELY OWNED BY THE AUTHORS.
THE PUBLIC PERFORMANCE OUTSIDE THIS
TERRITORY IS PROHIBITED BY LAWS AND
THE VIOLATOR MAY BE SUBJECT TO
SEVERE PENALTIES UNLESS SPECIALLY
AUTHORIZED BY THEM.

&#169;1992 KONAMI

Regional Differences

Like other  Contra  titles, the European release replaced the player characters with robots in order to circumvent German laws prohibiting the sale of violent games to minors.

Title Screen

Japan

US

Europe

In the Japanese version the title screen’s appearance onto the screen is simpler, using a fade-in effect; however, the title screen itself is animated, featuring flames in the Japanese text. In the North American release the title screen’s entry animation is more elaborate, as the subtitle The Alien Wars scrolls horizontally from the sides, accompanied by sound effects.

Introduction

Japanese

Translation

English

今、魂斗羅最大の戦いが始まる。

Now, Contra's greatest battle begins.

The Alien Wars begin!

Due to not being a direct translation, the big red scrolling text in the intro differs slightly in content between versions.

Japan

US

Europe

In the Japanese version; the characters lines are more explicit and aggressive in tone than in the overseas counterparts. The North American version doesn't use colored outlines on the text that was used in the Japanese version. The European version replaced the humans with robots, and removed the color-coded text altogether. The irony is that the color-coded text would have been even better suited for the European version as the humans are animated when they speak, while the robots are not.

Cutscenes

Contra

Probotector

Like in the intro, the European version replaced Bill Rizer and Lance Bean (Jimbo and Sully in the North American version) with the robots RD-008 and RC-011.

Font

Japanese

English

In the top-view stages, the Japanese version uses a metallic color with red outlines for its text. In the international versions it was changed to yellow.

Characters

Japan/US

Europe

Game Ending

Easy Mode Message

Japanese

Translation

English

Easy Mode Operation Completed  Good job!! However, you didn't completely destroy the enemies in this operation. The true big boss is lurking somewhere. Challenge yourself in a higher class mode and sweep them up next time!!

The Japanese version lets you know that there is still a true final boss left to defeat on higher difficulty settings. The international versions don't let you see the credits and only let you hear its music, so the "Try Normal Mode" was replaced with a "Push Start Key" notice.

Normal Mode Message

Japanese

Translation

English

Normal Mode Operation Completed  Your actions have defeated humanity's greatest crisis. However, the battle to protect the freedom and peace of Contra will continue from now on.

As the ending image montage is also displayed on Normal Mode in the Japanese version, the message is placed at the bottom of the screen. In the international versions, the only difference from Easy Mode is the scrolling starfield in the background.

Hard Mode Message

Japan

US

Europe

Hard Mode Operation Completed Congratulations!! Finally, you have achieved a perfect victory. You are the real hero! Your name will eternally go down in history for many people.

Due to the localization choices of the two previous Contra games, the timestamps on the images were removed in the international versions, instead of adjusting them. Strangely, the main characters were removed on the image where they encounter the brain in the European version.

(Translations: divingkataetheweirdo)

Credits

Japan

US

Europe

In the international versions, the team names for Arcade, Famicom, and Game Boy were updated and "Very Thanks" was changed to "Many Thanks".

Ending Celebration

Easy Mode

Normal Mode

Hard Mode

In the Japanese version, the credits and ending celebration is shown in all difficulty modes with the celebration screen containing a few subtle differences depending on the difficulty. On Normal mode, there is a kid added to the crowd. And on Hard mode, a friendly version of the man-faced dog from the first stage is added.

Japan

US

Europe

The text was changed in the international versions.

Final Score Screen

Japan/US

Europe

The final score screen is only shown when the game is cleared on Hard in all three versions. The image used was changed from the two main characters in dress uniform for the Japanese and American version to a close-up of a Probotector (similar to the one used in the opening) for the European version.

Cheats

There are 3 cheat codes in the Japanese version that were disabled in the international versions. Curiously, they're all references to Ryu and Ken's special move inputs from the  Street Fighter  series.

30 Lives

At the title screen, move the cursor at your desired game mode and then quickly  press  Down, Down+Right, Right, Start  (a  Hadoken  command). If done correctly, you will hear the player dying sound effect.

The code will remain in effect, even after a soft reset during gameplay. To disable the effect, simply go to the Options screen and adjust the starting number of lives to anything other than 30.

Since the US version disables the code, the Game Genie code

D987-AFA4

is required therein.

Sound Test

In the Japanese version, quickly press  Right, Down, Down+Right, X  (a  Shoryuken  command) at the title screen for the sound test.

Since the US version disables the code, the Game Genie code

418A-0F0D

is required therein.

(Source: GameFAQS (ReyVGM), GSCentral (Ugetab))

Level Select

Similar to the sound test, the code required to access the level selector is only enabled in the Japanese version. Make sure the cursor is one choice above your desired game mode (e.g. choose "Options" if you want to start the game in 1-Player Mode) and then quickly press  Down, Down+Left, Left, Start  (a Hurricane Kick command). You will hear an alien roar if you input the code correctly.

Alternatively, you can also input the code while highlighting your desired game mode by quickly pressing  Down, Down+Left, Left, Up+Left, Up, Start .

The Game Genie code

D5C8-64AF

is required to access it in the US version by selecting "Options" at the title screen. Press  Up  and  Down  to choose your level.

Other Changes

The Japanese version provides infinite continues while they are limited in the international versions. (The exact number of continues depends on the difficulty setting)

The Japanese version allows the player to fight the true final boss on Normal mode, whereas the international versions only allow it on Hard mode.

During gameplay in the Japanese version, the lives counter counts "1" as your last life. In the western versions, "0" is your last life.

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Contra

series

Arcade

Contra &#160;&#8226;  Super Contra

NES

Contra  ( Prototypes )&#160;&#8226;

Super C &#160;&#8226;

Contra Force

DOS

Contra

Game Boy

Operation C &#160;&#8226;

Contra: The Alien Wars

SNES

Contra III: The Alien Wars  ( Prototypes )

Genesis

Contra: Hard Corps

PlayStation

Contra: Legacy of War  ( Prototypes )&#160;&#8226;

C: The Contra Adventure  ( Prototypes )

Sega Saturn

Contra: Legacy of War  ( Prototype )

Game Boy Advance

Contra Advance: The Alien Wars EX

Nintendo DS

Contra 4  ( Prototypes )

WiiWare

Contra ReBirth

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Contra_III:_The_Alien_Wars&oldid=1926661 "

Categories :

Games developed by Konami

Games published by Konami

SNES games

Games released in 1992

Games released in February

Games released on February 28

Games with unused text

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with hidden level selects

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

Contra series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Konami

Games  >  Games by platform  >  SNES games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Konami

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1992

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in February

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in February  >  Games released on February 28

Games  >  Games by series  >  Contra series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 19 September 2025, at 04:49.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers