Bio Miracle Bokutte Upa - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Bio Miracle Bokutte Upa

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Bio Miracle Bokutte Upa

Developer :

Konami

Publisher :

Konami

Platforms :

NES  ,

Famicom Disk System

Released in JP : April 22,&#160;1988 (FDS), February 26,&#160;1993 (Famicom)  Released in US : June 9,&#160;2008 (VC)  Released in EU : August 9,&#160;2008 (VC)

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has  revisional differences .

Bio Miracle Bokutte Upa

was initially a Japan-only Famicom Disk System and Famicom game until America and Europe got to play it through the  Wii  Virtual Console in 2008.

Contents

1

No Damage

2

Level Select

3

Version Differences

3.1

Title Screen

3.2

Logo

3.3

Music

3.4

Sound Effects

3.5

Staff Credits

No Damage

A message reading "NO DAMAGE" will appear at the stage number screen if you set RAM address value

0x1C

to

1  . While the message would appear to imply an invincibility mode, the only thing it seems to do is keep you from being able to pause.

Level Select

On the title screen, hold  Up + A  on Controller 1 and  Down + B  on Controller 2. While holding all these buttons, press  Select  on Controller 1 to enable level select mode. Press  Select  ( A  in the Famicom version) to cycle through the level numbers to start with.

(Source:  kasuminome for GameFAQs )

Version Differences

Title Screen

FDS

Famicom

The first obvious change is the difficulty setting added to the Famicom release. When you press  Start  you can adjust the difficulty, while on the FDS you start your game. On easy mode you start with 3 health and 4 lives while normal mode starts you off with only 2 health and 2 lives. Also enemy damage is reduced in easy mode. The normal difficulty is equivalent to the FDS version's difficulty.

In the Famicom release, the Konami logo was removed and added three stars, one being discolored. The original FDS release had an animation of Baby Upa dropping down onto the title logo and hopping on it before resting on top of it. However, in the Famicom re-release, Baby Upa was also removed from next to the title. The removed graphics still remain in the ROM, though.

Logo

Famicom

FDS

The Famicom release starts off with this logo instead of a loading message.

Music

The FDS release has some nicer quality music since it uses the system's wavetable sound channel. The Famicom release remixed some tracks to compensate for this.

However, rather than just removing the expanded FDS audio and leaving it like that (ala

Gimmick!

by Sunsoft), the sound designers in charge of the Famicom port chose to entirely rework and remix the soundtrack, adding new percussion and drum samples along with updating the audio with newer techniques since the original release to compensate for the removed FDS audio.

In addition, some tracks were further altered by having their melodies lowered.

Song Title

FDS

Famicom

A Rattle Samba (Main BGM)

Sweat On The Beat (Underground BGM)

BGM3 (Vertical Scroll BGM)

BGM4 (Underwater BGM)

Invincibility

Boss

Final Boss

Treasure Chest

Area Clear

World Clear

Player Out

Game Over

The Land Of Happiness (Ending BGM)

The original soundtrack did not use any samples whatsoever, and relied on the noise channel for kick drums, drum hits and cymbals. The Famicom re-release adds bass/kick drum percussion to almost every track. Additionally, the noise channel has been changed as well to sound more "snare-like", resulting in the noise drums sounding more focused and much less rough than in the original soundtrack.

In addition, some tracks have an additional snare drum sample added, displacing the noise channel and relegating it to be used only for cymbal hits. BGM3 (Vertical Scroll BGM) is a prime example of this, along with the normal Boss theme, World Clear, Player Out and Game Over BGM, and Ending theme ("The Land of Happiness").

World Clear replaces the noise drums for sampled bass drums and snare drums as described above, but switches to only using the noise channel for drums at the very end, done in a snare-like fashion.

BGM4 (Underwater BGM), the Invincibility theme and Final Boss theme are the only tracks that do not use any samples whatsoever. However, the noise channel has been updated to give more of a snare-like attack to the drums, which makes it sound more focused and less rough than on the original tracks.

BGM3, BGM4, World Clear, and the Ending BGM are the aforementioned tracks that have been shifted down to a lower key in the Famicom re-release.

Sound Effects

Although none of the sound effects in the original version used the extra wavetable channel in the FDS, some sound effects were also updated in the Famicom re-release. One example is the Konami pause chime, which was changed from 4 notes to 6 notes, similar to the start chime in

Life Force

when you start the game, and also sped up as well.

FDS

Famicom

Staff Credits

The credits differ between the original 1988 FDS release and the 1993 Famicom re-release. By the time the game was re-released some employees had already left Konami, so the newer credits reflect this, particularly for "Sound Design".

For whatever reason, the "Visual Design" credits were removed entirely in the Famicom version.

(Source:  GDRI )

Staff Role

FDS

Famicom

Programmer

ANNA- YAMADA
SHORTCUT EDA
BUNBUN MURATA
JENNY♥ OKUDA

ANNA- YAMADA
SHORTCUT EDA
BUNBUN MURATA
JENNY♥ OKUDA
PA!PA! HITOMI

Visual Design

NEKOMANMA (Dogpaw Symbol) URAT
KOCHIRA KOIKE

Chara Design

NISHIMURA OMARU

♥MAMA-CHAN!♥
(Dogpaw Symbol)K-CHAN!

Sound Design

DENDEN MURATA
LYDIAN FUKAMI
JETBATH FUJII
YUKO CHAN
CHARLEY SADA
SUKEMARO FUJIO

LYDIAN FUKAMI
SUKEMARO FUJIO
NAKAMUR
KAORI-CHAN
AYA♥CHAN
GAZIRURU
YUKO♥CHAN

Package Design

SHIMONETA KENJI
YAMAMOTO ♥

SHIMONETA KENJI
HIROKO♥FUNABEE

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Bio_Miracle_Bokutte_Upa&oldid=1970843 "

Categories :

Games developed by Konami

Games published by Konami

NES games

Famicom Disk System games

Games released in 1988

Games released in April

Games released on April 22

Games with hidden level selects

Games with revisional differences

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with revisional differences

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Konami

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Konami

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1988

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in April

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in April  >  Games released on April 22

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games  >  Famicom Disk System games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 23 November 2025, at 11:31.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers