Boogerman: A Pick and Flick Adventure (SNES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Boogerman: A Pick and Flick Adventure (SNES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Boogerman: A Pick and Flick Adventure

Developers :

Interplay  ,

Sculptured Software

Publisher :

Interplay

Platform :

SNES

Released in US : December 1995  Released in EU : January 25,&#160;1996

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has a bugs page

This port of the  Genesis version original , featuring a homely, booger tossing superhero fighting an even grosser supervillain, is sheer product of the 90's.

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Unused Voice Clips and Music

3

Sound Test

4

Level and Cutscene Select

5

Unused Ending

6

Full Restore

7

Easter Egg

Sub-Page

Bugs

Unused Voice Clips and Music

To do:  uploading

Many voice clips used in the Genesis version of Boogerman remain in the game's coding and can be played from the sound test below, but simply aren't heard or coded to play in the game.

Stupid Tune - This appears to be an unused song. It loops very quickly, which would indicate it wouldn't be used in normal gameplay. It is only used in "Ending 2", which in turn is only accessible in the level select.

Boogerman: "Cool!" - Played when picking up the Milk or Chili Pepper powerups in the Genesis version. The SNES version uses "Collect1" and "Collect2" instead.

Boogerman: "Oops!"

Boogerman: "Yeah!"

Fly Boy: "You're maggot meat!"

Cuckoo

"Yum!" - Sounds like it should apply to one of the two ogre enemies, but they never play this sound.

There are two additional voice clips that are additionally inaccessible in the sound test. To listen to them, use the PAR codes

7E025A02

and

7E025Bxx

and enter the sound test. Then play a sound. The following values for xx are unused:

3D  : Might be an unused sound for when either Hickboy or Deodor Ant is defeated.

4F  : "I'm Melting!", spoken by Revolta. Might have been cut because that would have made Revolta too similar to the Wicked Witch of the West.

Sound Test

Press  Up, Down, Left, Right, Down, Down, B  at any point in the game (except when the game is paused). Press  Up  and  Down  to select a song, and  B  to play it.

Level and Cutscene Select

Press  Up, Down, Left, Right, L, L, L  at any point in the game (except when the game is paused). Press  Up  and  Down  to select a level, and  B  to go to it.

Unused Ending

The same unused ending with the developer images exists in the SNES version - select "Ending 2" in the level select.

Full Restore

Press  Up, Down, Left, Right, R, R, R  at any point in the game (except when the game is paused). Your booger and gas meters are restored, your health is set to medium (red cape), and you also gain the two bonus powerups if you didn't previously have them.

Easter Egg

If you manage to beat the game with full health (glowing red cape), in the credits, the name of Michael Stragey will flash.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Boogerman:_A_Pick_and_Flick_Adventure_(SNES)&oldid=1545142 "

Categories :

Games developed by Interplay

Games developed by Sculptured Software

Games published by Interplay

SNES games

Games released in 1995

Games released in December

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with hidden level selects

To do

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Interplay

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Throwback Entertainment  >  Games developed by Acclaim Entertainment  >  Games developed by Acclaim Studios Salt Lake City  >  Games developed by Sculptured Software

Games  >  Games by platform  >  SNES games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Interplay

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1995

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 1 February 2024, at 20:18.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers