Fire Emblem Gaiden - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Fire Emblem Gaiden

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Fire Emblem Gaiden

Developer :

Intelligent Systems

&#91;1&#93;

Publisher :

Nintendo

&#91;2&#93;

Platform :

NES

Released in JP : March 14,&#160;1992  &#91;2&#93;

This game has  unused areas .

This game has  unused playable characters .

This game has  unused enemies .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused items .

This game has  unused text .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has a prerelease article

Fire Emblem Gaiden

is the second game in the series and the only other one for the original Famicom. While set after the events of the  first game , it is not a continuation of Marth's adventures (hence the  Gaiden  titling), but instead focuses around two new protagonists, Alm and Celica (each leading their own army), as they seek to bring peace to the continent of Valentia, a land divided by a war between two deities. The game adds an exploration aspect that brings it closer to more conventional RPGs, as opposed to being just a series of battles (an approach very similar to

Shining Force  , which was coincidentally released in Japan a week later).

It would later be remade for the Nintendo 3DS as

Fire Emblem Echoes: Shadows of Valentia  , this time getting an international release.

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Unused Characters

2.1

Alm-Forsyth

2.2

Clive's Clone

2.3

Other Playable/Neutral Characters

2.4

Unused Enemies

3

Unused Classes

4

Unused Items

4.1

Gaia

4.2

Other Unused Items

5

Unused Graphics

5.1

Unused Portraits

6

Unused Locations

6.1

Desert Shrine

6.2

Other Unused Entrances

6.3

Unused Location Names

7

Difficulty Select

8

Sound Test

9

References

Sub-Page

Prerelease Info

Unused Characters

Gaiden  has no shortage of characters that go unused. These unused characters are at varying levels of completion.

Alm-Forsyth

To do:  Hack him into the game properly and check for data such as death quotes and endings.

The character found at ID

18

is the most complete of this vast assortment of unused characters. Though his name (フォルス) is an identical copy of Forsyth's and his portrait is simply Alm's, the rest of his data is unique and not used by any other character. He would have joined the army as a level 5 Paladin, carrying no special equipment.

HP

Str

Skl

Spd

Luck

Def

Res

Base stats

32

12

6

9

3

7

5

Growth rates

50%

15%

25%

15%

10%

30%

0%

Clive's Clone

Adjacent to the used (クレーベ) Clive is this duplicate of him at ID

0B  . This duplicate is almost completely identical to the original.

HP

Str

Skl

Spd

Luck

Def

Res

Base stats

26

12

7

7

6

7

0

Growth rates

40%

20%

20%

20%

20%

20%

0%

In identical fashion to the used Clive, he joins as a level 6 Cavalier wielding a Steel Lance. The only discrepancy that can be found is in their resistance stats: this clone has absolutely zero Resistance, while the used version has a single point of it.

Other Playable/Neutral Characters

To do:  Add the offsets for each of the name strings, unpointed-to strings especially.

ID

Name

Translation

Notes

24

おんな

Woman

While this name label is used when talking to the woman who promotes Celica in Grieth's Fort, this ID has Alm's promoted portrait attached to it for some reason, which can never be seen as there is no data left for this character as a unit.

25

おとこ

Man

This name label never gets used. Celica's promoted portrait is associated with this unit slot.

26

むすめ

Girl

This label also goes unused. No portrait data is associated with it.

29

Gナイト

Gold Knight

This generic unit is meant to represent some of Zeke's underlings, who turn into temporary allies on the Rigel Plains battle. While the paladin and bow knight are used, this gold knight is not: the only gold knight in the formation is Zeke himself.

---

ジュノー

Juno

This name string can be found amongst the playable characters. No pointer to it remains. A character with a similar name, Juno (ユーノ), is playable in

Fuuin no Tsurugi  ; the reuse of the name is likely coincidental.

Unused Enemies

There are several unused enemies present within the code of  Gaiden . Non-generic units are associated with their map; none of these units have any remaining data besides their names and portraits.

ID

Name

Translation

Notes

8C

ハンニバル

Hannibal

Uses the same portrait as Slayde and several other minor bosses. The name Hannibal would later be used for a playable character in

Seisen no Keifu  .

8D

マッセナ

Massena

While Massena does appear as an NPC in the final game, it is noteworthy that his unit ID is an enemy's. He never fights the player in the final release. As he was the captain of Emperor Rudolf of Rigel's guards, it is likely that he attacked the player at some point of development instead of surrendering to Alm as part of Rudolf's final orders.

99

リゲルぐん

Rigel Army

Most Fire Emblem games label their generic units with the unit's affiliation. Final  Gaiden  does not do this, with generic units simply referred to by their class. This shows that naming units by affiliation was planned at some point. The game's  3DS remake  later followed this scheme. These represent the forces of the Kingdom of Rigel, the main enemy kingdom throughout the game.

9F

リゲルぐん

Rigel Army

Another unit ID representing the Rigelians.

A0

ギースぐん

Grieth's Army

These generic units are loyal to Grieth, who has carved out a realm for himself in the eastern deserts and is fought during Celica's half of Chapter 3.

A1

ドゼーぐん

Desaix's Army

These are soldiers of Desaix, who organized a coup against the king of Zofia and attempted to take over the kingdom. His forces are the main enemy for Chapter 1.

A2

ドルクくん

Dolth-kun

Considering the context of the surrounding unit IDs, it is likely that ドルクくん is a typo and ドルクぐん, Dolth's Army, was the intent. Dolth is a boss fought in Celica's half of Chapter 4, described as "the Great Cantor Dolth" by himself and NPCs.

A3

まどうぐん

Netherworld Army

The word used is actually "madō", which can mean several different things, ranging from "heresy / (the) path of evil" to "sorcery", to even the netherworld. Without more context to go off of, it's not  really  clear which reading was intended here. It was likely intended for either the Duma Faithful, a cult of dark sorcerers, or for the numerous monster units, who often appear under the control of said Duma Faithful.

A4

かいぞく

Pirate

Several pirates are fought throughout Chapter 2, which largely takes place on the open sea.

A5

さんぞく

Bandit

Bandits are staple early game enemies in Fire Emblem, and  Gaiden  is no exception to this. The first few maps in Chapter 1 involve skirmishes against bandits.

A6

まもの

Monster

Monsters are a staple enemy type in the game.

(Source: Darrman. Translations based on Artemis251's patch)

Unused Classes

Due to the way class data works in  Gaiden , there are no unused classes with any amount of data remaining. The majority of enemy name IDs beyond

B0

are dedicated to the unit names used by generic enemies, and unused entries here were presumably at some point intended to represent some form of class.

ID

Name

Translation

Notes

C8

デビル

Devil

An unused monster type. No monsters resembling traditional depictions of the devil appear elsewhere in the series.

D0

サーペント

Serpent

The translation patch renders this as "Gorgon", monsters with a snake motif that appear in

Sacred Stones  . However, simple snakes are not fought as monsters at any point.

D1

ナーガ

Naga

While its name is shared with Naga, the dragon god of Archanea, it is unlikely to be a reference to

Ankoku Ryu

or its as of then unreleased

sequel  . Since nagas are snake-like creatures belonging to Indian mythology, it was most likely intended to be a variant of the serpent.

---

ハイナイト

High Knight

What these knights were originally above is anyone's guess. The name would never be seen again in any other Fire Emblem game. A quirk of the fan translation uses this name for まじん ("majin", officially localized as "Fiend") enemies.

---

ジェネラル

General

Generals are a series staple, being the promoted form of the Knight. For whatever reason, Intelligent Systems chose to call the promoted form of the Knight class "Baron" in  Gaiden , since the aforementioned staple would not be properly established until  Monshou . Its position amongst the enemy unit names suggests that the name was intended for use amongst enemy barons at some point.

---

きょうせんし

Berserker

Berserkers are a later staple of the franchise, typically being depicted as promoted brigands and pirates. This axe-toting variant would be introduced in  Thracia 776 , well after  Gaiden 's release. A sword-using berserker can be found in  Monshou . Whether that variant,  Thracia  and beyond's version, or something else entirely was intended to be used for this name is unknown. Worth noting is that the きょうせんし ("kyōsenshi", literally "crazed fighter") name would only actually be used for the class in

The Blazing Blade  . バーサーカー (the English word "Berserker", transcribed into katakana) is the name used for the class in all other appearances.

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

Unused Items

Gaia

The only functional unused item is the Gaia spell. The term Gaia has a history of being unused within Fire Emblem games: Medeus, the final boss of  Ankoku Ryu , was originally named Gaia earlier in development, and the final game has an unused character slot using that name. Even as late as  Shin Monshou , Dark Breath's file names refer to it as "Gaiabreath".

The spell name is located at

0x3DE56  .

ID

Weapon Name

Translation

Mt

Hit

Wt

Crt

Rng

1E

ガイア

Gaia

0

100

0

0

1-2

Outside of having 100% accuracy, the rest of Gaia's stats are all zeroes. If hacked in as an item, it can be used by priestesses. Its icon is a bow, like all magic spells that are hacked in as items. When cast, a copy of the caster will move towards the enemy.

(Source:  Serenes Forest )

Other Unused Items

No other functional items are present, but there are some name strings with no accompanying data.

ボーマ Bōma

ボース Bōsu

Neither of these items appear in any other Fire Emblem game. Their name strings are located amongst enemy spells, so it is most likely that that was their original purpose before getting cut.

Unused Graphics

Unused Portraits

Portrait ID

1E

Portrait ID

33

Gaiden  has two unused character portraits. The first, ID

1E  , is an edit of a generic boss portrait, though this particular version of it never gets used.

The second, ID

33  , is more interesting. It is an edit of Zeke's portrait that cuts his hair back. Zeke's portrait is a slightly edited version of Camus's portrait from  Ankoku Ryu ; this is because they are one and the same person. It is possible that earlier in development Zeke's design would've been slightly altered so that even though he would still recognizably be Camus, he would not be completely identical. In any case, the final release opted for a much more conservative edit of his  Ankoku Ryu  portrait.

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

Unused Locations

Desert Shrine

The (さばくのほこら) Desert Shrine is a fully unused dungeon. The video demonstrates the player exploring the dungeon.

To access the dungeon, go to the world map and attempt to move to a location. When selecting where to go, edit RAM

0x74B5

or

0x74B6

to

0x3E

to replace the first or second available destinations with the Desert Shrine. The dungeon layout itself is the same as the Liberation Headquarters, featuring a hallway, an encounter, a hallway with some graves, and finally the Mila shrine. The encounter is not used anywhere else, featuring a battle against a single Fiend. The shrine's lion heads provide three HP or Luck bonuses to be distributed at the player's discretion. This combination of stat bonuses is not found anywhere else. When leaving the dungeon, the player will be placed outside of Mila's Temple.

(Source:  Robert Stewart )

Other Unused Entrances

In addition to the Desert Temple, there is unused entrance data for the Fort and Duma's Gate, which cannot be entered in the final release. Wherever they originally lead to no longer exists: both drop the player into the Lost Woods. While Duma's Gate is located near the Lost Woods and an entrance to it makes sense, the Fort, a location late on Alm's route, transporting the player to a dungeon on Celica's route is unlikely to have been the original intention before the entrance's removal.

To enter the Fort's entrance, set

0x74B5

or

0x74B6

to

0x49  . Set it to

0x4C

instead to enter Duma's Gate.

(Source:  Robert Stewart )

Unused Location Names

(ドーマのさいだん) Duma's Altar, the final dungeon of the game, has its own location name like all other locations. Its name string is at the very end of the area names. While the location is named in dialogue, it does not appear on the world map at any point, only being accessed through Rigel Castle. As a result, its name string goes unused and no pointer to it remains.

Difficulty Select

On the title menu, set cursor to the "さいしょから" ("New Game") option, hold  Select + Start  and then press  A  on Controller 1. When selecting a save slot, a new additional menu with a difficulty select will appear. "NORMAL" and "EASY" are the available options.

Easy mode doubles experience gain for all player units and allows unlimited trading between Alm's and Celica's groups. On Normal mode, there are a limited amount of times items can be sent across groups. Enemy attributes and layouts are unchanged, making this mode comparable to

Thracia 776  's Paragon Mode, which is also unlocked in a similar manner and also granted doubled experience gain to all units.

Sound Test

This needs some investigation.

Discuss ideas and findings on the  talk page .

Specifically:  Some sounds in here are definite FE1 leftovers - the "no damage" tink, for instance. Figure these out.

This game contains exactly the same sound test mode as its predecessor, although the method to access it is much simpler: at the first game message ("1991") after startup, press  Up, Down, Left, Right, Up  on Controller 1. This still works in  the remake , albeit at the title screen, though the sound test's basic functionality remains unchanged.

References

↑

外伝

↑

2.0

2.1

ファイアーエムブレム 外伝 | ファミリーコンピュータ | 任天堂

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Fire Emblem

series

NES

Shadow Dragon & the Blade of Light &#160;&#8226;

Gaiden

SNES

Monshou no Nazo &#160;&#8226;

Seisen no Keifu &#160;&#8226;

Thracia 776

Satellaview

Akaneia Senkihen

Game Boy Advance

Fuuin no Tsurugi &#160;&#8226;

Fire Emblem  ( Prototypes )&#160;&#8226;

The Sacred Stones  ( Prototype )

GameCube

Path of Radiance

Wii

Radiant Dawn

Nintendo DS

Shadow Dragon &#160;&#8226;

Shin Monshou no Nazo

Nintendo 3DS

Awakening &#160;&#8226;

Fates &#160;&#8226;

Echoes: Shadows of Valentia

Wii U

Tokyo Mirage Sessions ♯FE

Nintendo Switch

Warriors &#160;&#8226;

Three Houses &#160;&#8226;

Warriors: Three Hopes &#160;&#8226;  Engage

iOS, Android

Heroes

Related Games

PlayStation

Tear Ring Saga  ( Prototype )

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Fire_Emblem_Gaiden&oldid=1846848 "

Categories :

Games developed by Intelligent Systems

Games published by Nintendo

NES games

Games released in 1992

Games released in March

Games released on March 14

Games with unused areas

Games with unused characters

Games with unused enemies

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused items

Games with unused text

Games with hidden sound tests

To do

To investigate

Fire Emblem series

Cleanup  >  To do

Cleanup  >  To investigate

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused areas

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused characters

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused enemies

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused items

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Intelligent Systems

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Nintendo

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1992

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in March

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in March  >  Games released on March 14

Games  >  Games by series  >  Fire Emblem series

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 26 May 2025, at 03:48.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers