Nightshade (NES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Nightshade (NES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Nightshade Part 1: The Claws of Sutekh

Developer :

Beam Software

Publishers :

Ultra Games

(NES),

Piko Interactive

(Windows)  Platforms :

NES  ,

Windows

Released in US : January 1992 (NES), March 7,&#160;2019 (Windows)

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused music .

This game has  unused text .

This game has  revisional differences .

This game has a bugs page

Nightshade

is an action-adventure game where you control a detective (who fights) to put an end to crime in Metro City (and with Sutekh), unravel mysteries, collect clues, and more. The game's language is somewhat comic book-like, featuring superheroes, villains, and heroes, and makes several references throughout the story.

This game served as a spiritual predecessor to  the SNES  Shadowrun  , which has the same developer and a similar point-and-click style.

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Unused Graphics

3

Unused Text

4

Unused Music

5

Version Differences

Sub-Page

Bugs

Unused Graphics

There are a few unused graphics stored in the ROM data.

Items with a name in the ROM:

COOKIE - It wasn’t designed to restore Nightshade’s health, but it can be used to feed rats, squirrels, and other animals.

GOGGLES - Has no function if placed in the inventory. Looks similar to the goggles seen on the game's cover.

COMSET - Has no function if placed in the inventory. It seems to be something related to Communication Settings.

Items without a programmed name in the ROM (no way to access):

A bomb.  exists in the game, but they're all already armed and none of them can be picked up. Perhaps they planned it as a usable item and scrapped the idea later.

A snail?

It looks like several file folders. Maybe it would be some collectible item in the newspaper archives.

They look like lists. The game has a list you can pick up and read, so maybe this was just a placeholder.

A pickaxe.

Perhaps a discarded option in the settings?

A book? A door? It looks like an open door. Maybe a discarded option in the settings?

Unused Text

IT'S A SMALL BLUE KEY.

Probably would've been the key to open Sutekh's lair, as the gate is blue. The final game leaves the gate open, complete with the lock's latch exposed.

Unused Music

Similar to the fight song, but with different instrumentation. Perhaps intended for the final boss.

Version Differences

NES

Windows

The original release (and by extension the  Nintendo Entertainment System - Nintendo Switch Online  one) has a screen full of copyright info followed by a screen displaying the Ultra Games logo. The Windows release skips the first screen and replaces Ultra's logo with a rather generic one for Piko Interactive.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Nightshade_(NES)&oldid=2023199 "

Categories :

Games developed by Beam Software

Games published by Ultra Games

Games published by Piko Interactive

NES games

Windows games

Games released in 1992

Games released in January

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused music

Games with unused text

Games with revisional differences

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with revisional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused music

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Krome Studios  >  Games developed by Beam Software

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by platform  >  Windows games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Konami  >  Games published by Ultra Games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Piko Interactive

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1992

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in January

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 27 January 2026, at 16:12.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers