Gimmick! - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Gimmick!

From The Cutting Room Floor

(Redirected from  Mr. Gimmick )

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Gimmick!

Also known as : Mr. Gimmick (SCN)  Developer :

Sunsoft

Publisher :

Sunsoft

Platform :

NES

Released internationally : July 6,&#160;2023 ( Gimmick! Special Edition )  Released in JP : January 31,&#160;1992  Released in SCN : May 5,&#160;1993

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused music .

This game has  unused text .

This game has  debugging material .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has  revisional differences .

This game has  anti-piracy features .

This game has a prototype article

This game has a prerelease article

This game has a notes page

This game has a Data Crystal page

To do:  Differences between the Scandinavian version and USA proto,  pre-release information

Gimmickǃ

is an incredibly cute, and incredibly difficult, Famicom action-platformer. Despite receiving mixed reviews in its time, and being released just over a year after the Super Famicom's debut, it's garnered a cult following around the world thanks to its overall polished presentation and a rewarding-to-master star attack.  This attack doubles as a platform for finding the necessary items for the game's good ending.

Unfortunately, the only contemporary international release was in the Scandinavian countries, though at least two US prototypes has been found. The game wouldn't officially come to North American shores until a worldwide special edition re-release in 2023.

Contents

1

Sub-Pages

2

Bit Reversal

3

Sound Test

4

Disabled Debug Features

5

Unused Music

6

Anti-Tampering Routine

7

Playable Enemy

8

Unused Graphics

8.1

Yumetarō

8.2

Text Characters and Symbols

9

Unused Text

10

Regional Differences

10.1

Lives

10.2

Music

10.3

Title Screen

10.4

Intro Screen

11

Revisional Differences

Sub-Pages

Prototype Info

Prerelease Info

Notes

Bit Reversal

This game's samples are corrupted by the 2A03's bit reversal bug. For more information, click  here .

Sound Test

To access the Sound Test, hold  Select  and press  Start  at the title screen. It contains every track in the game, with the exception of  Evidence of My Life , later named in the game's own OST, and an alternate version of  Cadbury  with slightly different instruments.

In the Japanese version, the round cursor's color depends on bits 1 and 2 of music data, for a total of four different colors.  It doesn't change much, with the bits mostly remaining at zero, except for the tracks  Strange Memories of Death  and  Paradigm.

During  Paradigm , the cursor will blink orange during the intro of the song. After the intro, the cursor will turn green during certain parts of the song.

For  Strange Memories of Death , the cursor will remain green during the whole intro of the song. Before the song loops, the cursor will turn green during three measures of eight, high-pitched notes.

There is not much connected to it; the developers just selected not-so-frequently-changing data to highlight the cursor. If they had selected another piece of data, it may have been much more interesting.

Disabled Debug Features

Using Game Genie codes will re-enable some debugging features, which differ slightly between versions.

For the Japanese version, use both

ZEETLZPS

and

PAVVTZAA

Game Genie codes to activate the functions below. For the Scandinavian release, only

PAVVTZAA

is necessary.

In the Japanese version, pressing  Select  on Controller 1 will refill your HP. On Controller 2, pressing  A + B  will increase lives. Using the  D-Pad  on Controller 2 will warp to one of the four checkpoints in a level and pressing  B  will complete the current level and return you back to the map. The level skip function will result in the bad ending, unless the player collects the special item in each level before using it. Holding  A  and pressing  B  will enable the good ending.

In the Scandinavian version, all functions are done using Controller 2. Pressing  A  will refill all items and HP. The other functions work the same.

(Source: CaH4e3)

Unused Music

The second track in the NSF, "Strange Memories of Death", goes unused in the game proper. It can be heard in the sound test, though.

Almost 30 years later, this track would finally see in-game use in the arcade remake  Gimmick! EXACT☆MIX , where it is used for the new continue screen.

Anti-Tampering Routine

The Japanese version features a unique anti-tampering routine. If the intro code is tampered with (as is the case with the pirated version,  Shui Guan Pipe )  and  the player makes it to the secret Stage 7, the routine will trigger, preventing unsuspecting players from being able to reach the final boss and get the good ending. This routine was removed in the Scandinavian version.

Contrary to popular belief, this wasn't intended as an anti-piracy measure. Instead, this routine was a remnant of  Tomomi Sakai's attempt to prevent his name from being removed from the intro . He was ultimately unsuccessful in doing so, as the final game is neatly altered around the routine trigger. The message displayed is a reference to

Atlantis no Nazo  , an earlier Sunsoft game, and is itself another change that was made to the  prototype  before release.

In the Japanese version, Game Genie code

PAZAOY

will change the value at address

8F21

to

01  , which will trigger the message: Simply access the final level and walk close enough to the castle for the routine to be executed. Conversely, Game Genie code

IALEUN

will maintain a value of

0D

at address

8F3B  , bypassing the routine and allowing the bug in the final level to load properly.

See  the Notes page  for a detailed description of the anti-tampering code.

(Source: Rachel Mae, Tomomi Sakai)

Playable Enemy

One strangely still Ohagi in the ship's interior portion of Stage 2 can actually be controlled using Controller 2.

On Controller 2,  Left  and  Right  makes the Ohagi walk, and  A  makes it jump.

Like any other enemy, the Ohagi will still do damage if it runs into the main character. Unfortunately, it cannot defeat enemies and cannot be brought into any other area of the stage.

Unused Graphics

Yumetarō

This is found with the ending cutscene graphics of Yumetarō and the girl running away from the crumbling castle.

Text Characters and Symbols

A variety of unused text characters and symbols. The letter "A" takes up two tiles, and was intended to be used in a scrapped intro screen, documented below.

Unused Text

The Scandinavian version contains two unused intro text strings that were (mostly) overwritten in the Japanese version, which is rather odd given the fact that the former is a  later  build of the game.

CK ENTERTAINMENT TEAM

Found at

0x37C43  . This string was partially overwritten by the "AUTHENTIC ENTERTAINMENT" string used in the intro. The "CK" would seem to imply that it once said "GIMMICK ENTERTAINMENT TEAM".

The full string being present in the Japanese prototype seems to confirm this.

A TOMOMI SAKAI

GAME

Found at

0x37C5A  . Atypically, the letter "A" used in the first line is actually comprised of two tiles, both of which are only present in the Japanese version.

Only a small portion of this string, "TOMO", remains in the Japanese version; oddly enough, the aforementioned  anti-tampering routine  actually checks for the presence of these unused characters.

Regional Differences

Lives

The Japanese version and US prototype start the player with four lives, whereas the Scandinavian version offers eight lives instead.

Music

Japan

Scandinavian

US Proto

The Scandinavian version and US prototype have minor alterations to the music to make up for the missing extra sound chip. As an example,  Strange Memories of Death  seems to suffer from this change the most.

Title Screen

Japan

Scandinavian / US Proto

Both the Scandinavian release and US prototype replace the katakana on the title screen, which reads "Gimikku" (ギミック), with "Mr. GIMMICK."

Intro Screen

The Scandinavian version shows a "LICENSED BY NINTENDO" screen when booting up the game that was completely absent in the Japanese version.

Additionally, the "GIMMICK!" screen is changed to "Mr. GIMMICK" in the Scandinavian version and the US prototype to reflect the change made to the game's name.

Revisional Differences

In 2002,  Gimmick!  was rereleased on PlayStation (and later the PlayStation Network) through the Japan-only two-game compilation  Memorial Series Sunsoft Vol. 6  ( メモリアルシリーズサンソフト Vol. 6 ). This version uses the original Japanese ROM, albeit with a few bytes changed.

Famicom

PlayStation

First, the visible area has been cropped on all four sides, most noticeable on the top. As a result of this change, ceiling hazards appear to be floating, and it's slightly harder to notice the entrance to Stage 6's secret area.

Famicom

PlayStation

Second, the instrumentation is significantly altered due to the emulator using an incorrect clock speed for the  SUNSOFT 5B  chip. The incorrect clock speed results in the pitches being a higher octave, affecting both the soundtrack and the sound effects.

The above comparison uses the track  Just Friends , which plays in the secret areas hidden throughout the game, as an example. The harmony is overemphasized in the PlayStation version, overwhelming the melody.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Gimmick!&oldid=2018940 "

Categories :

Games developed by Sunsoft

Games published by Sunsoft

NES games

Games released in 1992

Games released in January

Games released on January 31

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused music

Games with unused text

Games with debugging functions

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with regional differences

Games with revisional differences

Games with anti-piracy methods

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with anti-piracy methods

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with revisional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused music

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Sunsoft

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Sunsoft

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1992

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in January

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in January  >  Games released on January 31

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 21 January 2026, at 21:27.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers