Paperboy (NES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Paperboy (NES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Paperboy

Developer :

Eastridge Technology

Publishers :

Mindscape

(US/EU),

Altron

(JP)  Platform :

NES

Released in JP : January 30,&#160;1991  Released in US : December 1988  Released in EU : October 26,&#160;1990

This game has  unused enemies .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a Data Crystal page

To do:  The Japanese version mentions a "secret" involving you throwing a newspaper while pressing B. It doesn't seem to do anything though. Maybe it gives more points?

The NES port of one boy's journey to deliver newspapers. Hope you don't bust any windows while taking down those thieves. Well known for being the first NES game fully developed in the United States.

Unused Graphics

These two graphics banks go completely unused. The first is a sprite bank with graphics that are in an  extremely  rough state (even for this game). It includes several enemies/obstacles from the arcade game that were omitted from the NES port, along with a few pre-final sprites that  did  make the cut. The second is a background bank that is identical to the one that is actually used in the game. Both banks were removed/overwritten in the Japanese ROM.

A burglar trying to break into a house through a window. (The mysterious "thief" the "hero paperboy" supposedly stopped.)

A skittering black cat.

This thing. Possibly the explosion graphic for when the paperboy wrecks. Who knows how it's supposed to fit together.

Two guys in a fist fight.

A casual dude leaning on something.

An old lady pushing a shopping cart.

A pizza delivery girl on rollerskates. (Well, in the arcade version at least.)

The guy who runs out and drops bombs. Maybe.

Early

Final

An early version of the titular paperboy. The last vertical frame went untouched in the end.

Early

Final

An early version of the motorcycle rider that drives between blocks.

Early

Final

A ruff version of the dog that gives chase.

Early

Final

An early version of the angry lady that runs out of her house. She has two extra animation frames, including a downed state.

On top of all that, there's also an unused animation frame of the paperboy taking off his cap after completing the training course.

Regional Differences

US

Japan

The design of Paperboy on the title screen Daily Sun is different:

In the US version, the Paperboy's portrait is adapted straight from the Commodore 64 version, right down to the odd pixel scaling. Only some slight alterations were made to round out the details.

In the Japanese version, his portrait was completely redrawn to resemble the Japanese cover art (which, in turn, is based on the arcade cabinet art).

The typeface was also changed.

US

Japan

The title screen was also given a better facelift for the Japanese version.

US

Japan

The default high score table was slightly revamped. The names were changed and the scores were greatly increased.

US

Japan

The rightmost person on the bleachers at the end of the Training Course was recolored. His skin no longer blends into the seat, making him appear headless. Also, the gray color used in the backgrounds was darkened a barely-discernible amount.

US

Japan

In the international versions, making a perfect delivery nets you one extra subscriber. In the Japanese version, it nets you two.

Additionally, newspapers can only be thrown with  A  in the Japanese version, while the international versions let you use  A  or  B . However, the Japanese version lets you skip cutscenes with  B .

In the Japanese version, press the  Select  button to display the game in Japanese.

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Paperboy

series

Arcade

Paperboy

ZX Spectrum

Paperboy

Commodore 64

Paperboy

NES

Paperboy

Game Boy (Color)  Paperboy ( GBC )

Sega Master System

Paperboy

Genesis

Paperboy

Nintendo 64

Paperboy

PlayStation

Paperboy

Game Boy Advance

Paperboy & Rampage

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Paperboy_(NES)&oldid=1915144 "

Categories :

Games developed by Eastridge Technology

Games published by Mindscape

Games published by Altron

NES games

Games released in 1988

Games released in December

Games with unused enemies

Games with unused graphics

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Paperboy series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused enemies

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Eastridge Technology

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Altron

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Mindscape

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1988

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December

Games  >  Games by series  >  Paperboy series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 2 September 2025, at 06:12.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers