Crisis Force - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Crisis Force

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Crisis Force

Developer :

Konami

Publisher :

Konami

Platform :

NES

Released in JP : August 27,&#160;1991

This game has  unused code .

This game has  hidden development-related text .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  anti-piracy features .

This game has a prototype article

Crisis Force

is a very impressive vertically-scrolling shooter from Konami. Unfortunately, it was never released outside of Japan, likely because it was a fairly late release that used Konami's custom VRC4 chip.

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Player Select

3

Unused Graphics

4

Build Date

5

Anti-Piracy

Sub-Page

Prototype Info

Player Select

It seems that the game intended to have some sort of "player selection menu" allowing you to select the ship type for both players, early in the development stage. There is some unused piece of code in bank

$00

at address

$99CC

for what appears to be some very early version of such a selection routine. It doesn't even have a proper palette setup and even if you hack it back into the game using the Game Genie codes

UEKYPONA + KKKYGOIS + OOKYIOKU

(enter the options menu at the title screen), you can't see anything unless you modify the game's palette using the debugger.

If you do so, you will see something like the picture above and to the left. There are two ship sprites for the first player to the left, and one ship sprite for the second player to the right. You can change the selected ship by pressing  Up / Down  on either Controller. Pressing  A  or  B  will "apply" the setting and the sprites will slowly stop blinking. But since the routine is quite rudimentary (and actually nothing is known where and how to properly call it), the routine will continue the selection from the beginning.

Unused Graphics

The only used portion of this set of various firing animations is the vertical one to the left, used in the first instance of the final boss fire-breathing animation. The rest of it is never used during the game.

Build Date

An ID string listing the build version and date can be found at the end of the PRG ROM:

MSTR910701

A similar ID can be found in many other Konami games.

"MSTR" means it's the "master" version of the game, and the numbers represent the date. So, this build was compiled on July 1, 1991.

Anti-Piracy

As with most of the games Konami has published after 1990, this game features a copy-protection routine. The game checks for the character with code

$29

(copyright symbol, "&#169;") in VRAM at the certain position of the title screen, and sets a flag if the test fails. If the flag is set, the game will always loop back to level 1 when you finish level 2.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Crisis_Force&oldid=968522 "

Categories :

Games developed by Konami

Games published by Konami

NES games

Games released in 1991

Games released in August

Games released on August 27

Games with unused code

Games with hidden development-related text

Games with unused graphics

Games with anti-piracy methods

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with anti-piracy methods

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden development-related text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused code

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Konami

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Konami

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1991

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in August

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in August  >  Games released on August 27

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 8 May 2021, at 20:34.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers