Wild Guns - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Wild Guns

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Wild Guns

Developer :

Natsume

Publishers :

Natsume

(JP/US),

Titus

(EU)  Platform :

SNES

Released in JP : August 14,&#160;1994  Released in US : July 1995  Released in EU : October 31,&#160;1996

This game has  hidden developer credits .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  debugging material .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has  anti-piracy features .

This game has a prototype article

A western-themed shooter similar to the arcade game  Blood Bros.  ...Well, it  says  it's western themed, but there's huge robots. Probably best not to ask.

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Debug Mode

2.1

BGM TEST

2.2

SE TEST

2.3

OBJ TEST 0, OBJ TEST 1

3

Unused Graphics

4

Hidden Text

5

Stage Select

6

Anti-Piracy

7

Regional differences

7.1

Title Screen

7.2

Copyright Screen

Sub-Page

Prototype Info

Debug Mode

Starting at SNES address

$02DDDC

are the broken remains of a debug mode.  Unfortunately, it wasn't updated along with the rest of the game during development, so as a result, most jumps to subroutines in other banks are to invalid addresses.  However, it is possible to at least partially restore it.

To do:  This section has been "under construction" for about sixteen years now with no update. Can someone else figure out how to load the debug menu and document it?

Debug mode instructions:

D-Pad : Highlight an option, change index values.

L  +  R  +  Select : Exit menu and submenus(?)

BGM TEST

Press  Start  or  X  to play a song. This version only goes up to song

$10  , unlike the music test in the option menu that has a max limit of

$17  .

SE TEST

Press  Start  or  X  to play a sound effect. The max selection is

$7F  , but sounds only exist up to

$43  .

OBJ TEST 0, OBJ TEST 1

It's currently unknown what, if any, differences exist between "OBJ TEST 0" and "OBJ TEST 1".

Instructions:

D-Pad  Up  or  Down : increase or decrease "No," (animation frame).

Hold  B , move D-Pad: move crosshairs.

Hold  X , press  Up  or  Down : increase or decrease "PAL" (palette) index.

Hold  R , press  Up  or  Down : change "FILE" on the right side of screen.

Hold  L , press  Up  or  Down : change "FILE" index on the left side of the screen.

Unused Graphics

A graphic of the word SAMPLE is stored alongside the title screen, leftover from a  prototype build .

Hidden Text

These developer credits are located at

0x1BF

in all versions of the game. Similar text can be found in other Natsume games for the SNES.

PROGRAMD BY

NATSUME 1994

PROGRAM:宮部寿保
GRAPHIC:谷口俊一

Stage Select

At the character select screen, hold  Select  and press  A (&#215;4), B (&#215;4), A, B, A, B, A, B, A, B . A sound effect will confirm correct entry. Choose your character to be taken to the stage select screen. If you input the same code again on the stage select screen, you will be taken to the final level.

Anti-Piracy

The following content may induce seizures and has been hidden by default. Click to reveal:&#160;

As the Natsume logo fades out and on every frame on the title screen, the game will attempt to write to SRAM at

$700000

and if the write was successful, it'll lock up and intentionally corrupt the palette data which causes the screen to rapidly flash many colors. Bypassing this via pressing  Start  will just have the effect start earlier. An official cartridge contains no SRAM, so this write will do nothing, but cartridge copiers always have SRAM present, which trips the anti-piracy measure.

Action Replay code  0082CB:EA  or Game Genie code  3C6A-64AD  will activate the anti-piracy measure without the flashing colors.

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

Regional differences

To do:  Apparently there are some differences in the English text betweens versions. Also the removed animation for the Natsume logo on EU version. Check that out.

The game underwent some changes when it was brought to other regions.

Title Screen

The copyright text was changed between the three regions as different companys were involved for different regions. The Japanese title also features a subtitle. Furthermore the European version had its copyright date updated to 1995 instead of 1994.

Japan

US

Europe

Copyright Screen

The US version added a Screen for Copyright Information before the title screen. This was taken over into the European version with updated Copyright Information.

US

Europe

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Wild_Guns&oldid=2040065 "

Categories :

Games developed by Natsume

Games published by Natsume

Games published by Titus

SNES games

Games released in 1994

Games released in August

Games released on August 14

Games with hidden developer credits

Games with unused graphics

Games with debugging functions

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with hidden level selects

Games with anti-piracy methods

To do

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with anti-piracy methods

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden developer credits

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by NatsumeAtari  >  Games developed by Natsume

Games  >  Games by platform  >  SNES games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Natsume

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Titus

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1994

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in August

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in August  >  Games released on August 14

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 28 February 2026, at 15:49.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers