Panic Restaurant - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Panic Restaurant

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Panic Restaurant

Also known as : Wanpaku Kokkun no Gourmet World (JP)  Developer :

EIM

Publishers :

Taito  ,

Disco

(JP)  Platform :

NES

Released in JP : April 24,&#160;1992  Released in US : October 1992  Released in EU : September 13,&#160;1992

&#91;1&#93;

This game has  unused text .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a Data Crystal page

The EatEn restaurant is overrun by sentient food, all because a guy named Ohdove (shortened from Hors d'Oeuvre) wants it. So it's up to you, as Cookie, to brave the food and get your restaurant back!

Contents

1

Regional Differences

1.1

Intro & Title Screen

1.2

Player Character

1.3

Attacks

1.4

Screen Display

1.5

Stage Layouts

1.5.1

Appetizer

1.5.2

Soup

1.5.3

Salad

1.5.4

Fish

1.5.5

Meat

1.5.6

Dessert

1.6

Ending

2

References

Regional Differences

Intro & Title Screen

The game was given a new title for its western release. The Japanese title translates to " Mischievous Little Cookie in Gourmet World ". The Disco credit was also removed from the title screen and the  Taito Presents  screen. Some graphics, such as the text  Disco  for the  Taito Presents  screen and  Push Start  and the fruit from the title screen, still remain in the western versions.

Japan

US/Europe

Japan

US/Europe

Player Character

In the Japanese version, the main character, Cookie, is a young chef. For the western release, Taito decided to change him into an older man. It is worth noting that a few of Little Cookie's frames are still in Panic Restaurant's CHR, but the game does not use them for obvious reasons.

Japan

US/Europe

Attacks

To do:  Image please.

In the Japanese version, the basic attack is Cookie doing a headbutt. The invincible attack will be him spinning with a black frying pan.

In the western version, the basic attack is Cookie smashing with a black frying pan. The invincible attack will be him spinning with a cooking pot.

Screen Display

The European version received some minor visual changes to accommodate the lack of vertical overscan on PAL televisions: the status bar was moved down three pixels, and an eight-pixel border was added to the top of the screen to hide vertical scrolling artifacts.

US

Europe

Stage Layouts

Panic Restaurant  significantly changes item placements around compared to  Gourmet World , generally to make the game more difficult.

Appetizer

The spoon weapon was moved from right after the first building outside to over the downward slope right before the entrance to the restaurant, requiring a more precise jump to get it.

The health candy was moved from the fourth building outside to inside the restaurant, in between the two giant doors right before the boss.

The health-extending lollipop and the plate weapon inside the restaurant were removed, making attacking from afar not an option for the boss.

Soup

The spoon weapon in the first corridor was slightly moved to the right to make it harder to reach.

The health candy in the second corridor under the platform with the apple was replaced with a health-extending lollipop.

The health-extending lollipop in the last corridor before the boss was replaced with a spoon, and the spoon was replaced with a health candy.

Salad

A fork weapon was added next to the extra life after the first two bubble vats.

The health candy in the area with the twin conveyor belts was moved three blocks to the right.

A spoon weapon was added in an area soon after with two toaster enemies. However, it is positioned right above one of said toaster enemies, making collecting it difficult.

The health candy directly above the door to the boss was replaced with a health-extending lollipop.

Fish

The plate weapon halfway through the second vertical section was replaced with a spoon.

A health candy was added near the end of the third vertical section.

The health-extending lollipop in the last corridor before the boss was replaced with a health candy.

Meat

The health-extending lollipop near the end of the first vertical section was removed.

The health candy on the platform before the last vertical section was removed, and an extra life was added to the left of where it was, so the player has to jump off the left edge of it to get it.

The plate weapon on the second set of falling ice platforms and the first hook platform directly above it in the last corridor before the boss were both removed.

Dessert

The health candy in front of the waterfall in the first vertical section was replaced with a health-extending lollipop.

The health-extending lollipop above the door that leads to the second vertical section was replaced with a health candy.

The health candy near the beginning of the second vertical section was removed.

The health-extending lollipop right after the door that leads out of the second vertical section was replaced with a health candy.

The health-extending lollipop above the rightmost platform in the last corridor before the final boss was moved to the left of the middle platform, requiring a tighter and more risky jump in order to get it.

Ending

In the Japanese version, shortly after Cookie jumps down to The End screen, it fades to the credits. While the English version contains the credits sequence, it goes unused as the game simply ends at The End screen. In either version, setting

00:0019

to

0x0D

will send you directly to the credits.

Japan

US/Europe

References

↑

NES Cart Database

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Panic_Restaurant&oldid=2039823 "

Categories :

Games developed by EIM

Games published by Taito

Games published by Disco

NES games

Games released in 1992

Games released in April

Games released on April 24

Games with unused text

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by EIM

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher

Games  >  Games by publisher

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Square Enix  >  Games published by Taito

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Square Enix  >  Games published by Taito  >  Games published by Disco

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1992

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in April

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in April  >  Games released on April 24

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 28 February 2026, at 11:52.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers