Wolfenstein 3D (SNES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Wolfenstein 3D (SNES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Wolfenstein 3D

Also known as : Wolfenstein 3D: The Claw of Eisenfaust (JP)  Developer :

id Software

Publisher :

Imagineer

Platform :

SNES

Released in JP : February 10,&#160;1994  Released in US : March 1994  Released in EU :  1994

This game has  hidden development-related text .

This game has  unused music .

This game has  debugging material .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a prototype article

The SNES port of of the DOS classic. Aside from being heavily cut down compared to the original version, featuring only 30 levels (2 of them being secret) and half the bosses (all of which are taken from Wolf 3D's sequel

Spear of Destiny

for some reason), this version is particularily notorious for its censorship: a game where you go up against nazis certainly wasn't safe from Nintendo of America's policies at the time,  as had been proven six years earlier , so Hitler (or Staatmeister, as he's now known) had his mustache shaved, all the swastikas were scrubbed, and the infamous German voice acting has been redubbed in English. Oh, and the dogs are now giant rats, because Nintendo can't be having you kill man's best friend.

It also ended up spawning an unlicensed and decidedly more kid-friendly reskin from Wisdom Tree known as

Super 3D Noah's Ark  .

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Debug Modes

2.1

Level Select

2.2

Music Test

2.3

Sound Test

2.4

Instrument Test

3

Unused Song

4

Unused Graphics

5

Development Text

6

Regional Differences

6.1

Intro Screen

6.2

Cutscenes

7

Oddities

Sub-Page

Prototype Info

Debug Modes

There are a few different debug screens which can be accessed from the title screen. To see them, hold  R  while turning the game on. Let go of the button once the title screen appears, then press one of these button combos:

Up + Select  - Level Select

Right + Select  - Music Test

Down + Select  - Sound Test

There is also a MIDI instrument test which can be accessed by using  Pro Action Replay  (PAR) codes

C043F659 C043F768

and pressing  Start  at the title screen.

Level Select

Lets you choose from any of the normal levels, boss levels (*B), and secret levels (*S).

Music Test

It's a music test, you know the drill. Press  Up  or  Down  to choose a song, and just about any other button to play it. Pressing  Start  returns to the title screen while the current music continues playing.

Sound Test

Covers both sound effects and music samples. Values 25 and above are all silent. Pressing  Start  goes back to the title screen.

Instrument Test

A bit more detailed than the last two screens. The "Instrument" option selects one of the only 8 or so instrument samples available. "MIDI note" controls pitch, while "MIDI velocity" controls volume (the higher, the louder). "Pitch scale" and "Velocity scale" probably have something to do with per-instrument pitch and volume correction. Pressing  B  will play a single note with the current instrument settings.

"Test song" allows you to listen to music tracks, just like the actual music test. Pressing  A  starts the currently selected song. Pressing  B  to play an individual note will cause the music to stop playing.

(Source: Original TCRF research)

Unused Song

This song is used in the PC version when completing a level. The SNES version uses the Game Over/High Scores theme instead.

Unused Graphics

Multicolored stone wall with a red sign text. In  Spear of Destiny  it was a swastika.

It's unused because the multicolored stones replace a yellow brick wall, which has no ornament-type variations.

Also unused in the Jaguar version, but it has a swastika emblem and is visibly unfinished.

Hellish stones from the final level from  Spear of Destiny . Also unused in the Jaguar version, and was replaced with yellow bricks.

Placeholder texture. This completes a set of 64 wall.

Third frame of the Ubermutant firing. Also unused in the Jaguar version.

Development Text

Starting at

000FF5FF

are various messages pertaining to errors:

CONSOLE
Error occurred at line
in procedure
Line
Name
Subrange exceeded.
File is not open.
Read while at end of file.
Set overflow
Jump to undefined case statement label.
Integer math error.
Real math error.
Underflow.
Overflow.
Divide by zero.
Inexact.
Stack overflow.
Stack error

In addition to this, there are also error strings littered within the first several banks of the ROM, mostly used for sanity checking while testing/debugging.

01F6F: StackCheck error
07F78: Walk: Bad dir
07F86: Enemy walked into a solid area!
084A0: MoveActoron: bad dir!
095B7: Static overload!
098FB: Actor overload!
09A5E: Door overload!
09DA7: Bad spawn type
09DB6: Bad spawn type
09DC5: Bad spawn type
09DD4: Bad spawn type
09DE3: Bad spawn type
0B02F: Bad ChangeWeapon
0B0A7: Bad fire
0C0CE: pwall seg not found
0C98E: boxpos == 5
0DC90: Bad secret elevator

(Source: catzlol from the RTC Discord server)

Regional Differences

The game was also released in Japan. It is pretty much the exact same game with a few exceptions mostly with the storyline.

Intro Screen

US/Europe

Japan

The Japanese version removes the "Licensed by Nintendo" text, thus shifting the rest of the text down a little.

Cutscenes

The mission briefings in the US/Europe version were replaced in the Japanese version with black splash screens with the name of the episodes.

Also note how in the 5th episode cutscene, the boss is still referred to as the "Death Knight", which somehow made it past Nintendo of America's censors.

US/Europe

Japan

Japanese Text/Romaji

Translation

ウルフェンシュタインの災厄 Urufenshutain no Saiyaku

The Disaster of Wolfenstein

死霊の巣窟 Shiryou no Soukutsu

The Den of the Dead

アイゼンファウストの爪痕 Aizenfausuto no Tsumeato

The Clawmarks of Eisenfaust

呪いの木偶人形 Noroi no Dekuningyou

The Curse of the Wooden Figurines

戦友 Senyuu

The Comrade

勝利なき戦い Shouri naki Tatakai

The Battle Without Victory

Oddities

The ending screen of the game shows Dr. Schabbs before the Trans Grosse boss, which is the order which the bosses appeared in the prototype.

It seems the Jaguar version attempted to correct this, but swapped the names of Hans Grosse and Dr. Schabbs instead.

Despite the censorship for the SNES version, B.J's face in the HUD still has blood for when the player is at 25% health.

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Wolfenstein

series

DOS

Wolfenstein 3D  ( Prototype )&#160;&#8226;

Spear of Destiny

SNES

Wolfenstein 3D  ( Prototypes )

Jaguar

Wolfenstein 3D

Mac OS Classic

Wolfenstein 3D

Game Boy Advance

Wolfenstein 3D

J2ME, BREW

Wolfenstein RPG

Windows

Return to Castle Wolfenstein &#160;&#8226;

Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory &#160;&#8226;

Wolfenstein (2009)  ( Prototypes )&#160;&#8226;

Wolfenstein: The New Order

Mac, Linux

Return to Castle Wolfenstein &#160;&#8226;

Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory

Xbox 360, PlayStation 3

Wolfenstein (2009) &#160;&#8226;

Wolfenstein: The New Order

Xbox One, PlayStation 4

Wolfenstein: The New Order

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Wolfenstein_3D_(SNES)&oldid=1988923 "

Categories :

Games developed by id Software

Games published by Imagineer

SNES games

Games released in 1994

Games released in February

Games released on February 10

Games with hidden development-related text

Games with unused music

Games with debugging functions

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with hidden level selects

Games with regional differences

Wolfenstein series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden development-related text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused music

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by id Software

Games  >  Games by platform  >  SNES games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Imagineer

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1994

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in February

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in February  >  Games released on February 10

Games  >  Games by series  >  Wolfenstein series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 10 December 2025, at 21:11.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers