Final Fight 3 (SNES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Final Fight 3 (SNES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Final Fight 3

Also known as : Final Fight Tough (JP)  Developers :

Capcom  ,

Oersted

Publisher :

Capcom

Platform :

SNES

Released in JP : December 22,&#160;1995  Released in US : January 1996  Released in EU :  1996

This game has  hidden development-related text .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  debugging material .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has  anti-piracy features .

This game has a prerelease article

To do:

Document the prototype US version . Also, there's  pre-release differences .

The second of two SNES-exclusive sequels to

Final Fight  . Unlike

Final Fight 2  , this one feels more like a proper follow-up rather than just another version of the original, with various new play mechanics such as dashing, moonwalking, input-based special attacks, and even a super move gauge. Guy returns in this entry, fresh off his competitive fighting game debut in

Street Fighter Alpha  , giving SNES players who missed out on

Final Fight Guy

a chance to try out the Bushin-ryuu successor.

Contents

1

Sub-Pages

2

Unseen Sprite

3

Unseen Background Details

4

Test Area

5

Debug Mode

6

Error Messages

7

Anti-Piracy

8

Regional Differences

8.1

Title Screen

8.2

Palette Changes

Sub-Pages

Prerelease Info

Unseen Sprite

Hiding behind foreground objects, you can sometimes find a Yashichi item. The Yashichi icon has been used extensively in Capcom games, first appearing in

Vulgus  . You never get to see it fully in-game, although it can be seen partially hidden by a foreground object at the start of the sewer stage in Round 5, but it does have a specific sprite designed for it. It grants Invincibility on pickup.

Unseen Background Details

Original

Uncut

Original

Uncut

Due to the black bars added at the top and bottom of the screen, in many stages details in the background are unseen to the player.
Not all background objects have their top areas drawn however.

Test Area

Using the Stage Select menu option "TR" (seen below) or the Pro Action Replay (PAR) code

7E1F032B  , you can access a small debug area. It starts out exactly the same as stage one, but when you get to the first stop, there will be barrels. Each barrel will have a different object in it. Once the items cycle, each of the regular enemies in the game will appear, but one hit will defeat each of them.

Once you defeat the enemies, you're stuck here. Kinda neat to try out though.

(Source: Aether Knight)

Debug Mode

This game has a monster of a debug mode! To activate it, change ROM address

FFA0

or RAM address

1FE9

to

31

and hold  Select  until the Capcom logo fades out. (This address contains the first digit of the game's last build date/time, as displayed in the screenshot. Any non-zero value will enable debug mode;

31

was used here for aesthetic reasons.)

For whatever reason, the European version of Final Fight 3 has the debug mode enabled by default, no changes necessary.

Pressing  A ,  B ,  X , or  Y  activates one of four presets, which automatically sets appropriate debugging flags for certain tasks; for example, the "TAKE A PICTURE" preset (see image) would have been used to take screenshots of the game.

(Source: Rachel Mae)

Each option corresponds to one of the 16 bits in RAM address

7E1F0A  , starting with the most significant bit.

Menu item

Effect

RESERVED-1

Unused.

L+R RECOVERY

Press  L+R  to restore your health in full. This also sets your lives to 5.

TIME OVER DISP

Makes a number show up on the right side of the screen, incrementing whenever slowdown occurs.

X ENEMY CLASH

Pressing  X  kills every enemy on-screen.

SOUND TEST

Enables a music and sound test in the game options.

A2P TO FULL AUTO

Both players in Auto 2P mode are computer-controlled, instead of just Player 2.

EVERYTIME SUPER

SUPER (special) moves can be performed at any time, even if it is empty.

0:MEM-DISP/1:C-EDIT

Unknown.

PAUSE DEBUG

When you pause the game, the game's build date and time is displayed instead of "PAUSE". The different versions are dated as follows:

JP version:

9510111437

(Oct. 11 1995, 2:37 pm)

US version:

9510181121

(Oct. 18 1995, 11:21 am)

US prototype:

9510042240

(Oct. 4 1995, 10:40 pm)

EU version:

9511101337

(Nov. 10 1995, 1:37 pm)

Pressing  Select  while the game is paused lets you browse the contents of the game's RAM. You can choose which page to check by pressing  Up  or  Down . Pressing  Select  again wipes the screen, and if you press any button or direction on the gamepad, the game will advance a frame.

Hold  Select + L  and press  Start  to open the STAGE SELECT menu.

Hold  Select + R  and press  Start  to jump to the continue screen.

Hold  Select + L + R  and press  Start  to jump to the game's ending.

PAUSE NODISPLAY

The word "PAUSE" is not displayed on the screen when the game is paused.

END MARK

A black line appears on the screen during play that indicates how much CPU time the game is currently using. The line disappears while the game is paused.

BGM CUT

Turns off in-game music, except for the Pause jingle for some reason.

STAGE SELECT

Holding  L  when selecting a character leads to a map of every area in the game, allowing you to select which stage to play. Pressing  A  switches between the map and a list of every area by name.

OPENING SELECT

Press  Select  while the intro is playing. You'll be taken to a menu where you can choose between all the different cutscenes, character profiles, and endings.

ANMATION TEST

During the Capcom logo animation, hold  R  to display the animation on a loop for as long as the button is held.

ENEMY FREE

No enemies or breakable objects appear.

Error Messages

A number of ASCII error messages are sprinkled around the program code. All but one of them is preceded by

0000  , which is a BRK (break) instruction, and some code paths do indeed end up here. Unfortunately, the only code at the BRK vector is a BRA (branch) that points to itself, effectively freezing the game. Presumably, if the game locked up during testing, the developers could trace the code back to the point where it broke and read the error message stored there.

3696  : Score write overflow (this one is  not  preceded by a BRK)

6144  : Auto Command Un-Non

7309  : Tehas Scroll Pointer Un-non

7E35  : Seqence Command Un-non

8613  : Tsukami aite nashi (つかみあいてなし, 掴み相手無, "No opponent to grip.")

B62A  : Stage Seqence Err

C149  : Map color Change Method Error

CBC4  : ItemControl Command Err

EFCB  : Sound Command Un-non

(Source: Rachel Mae)

Anti-Piracy

Like many of Capcom's later SNES games, this game contains a simple anti-piracy check. On bootup, the game will attempt to write to SRAM at address

$306000

and if the write was successful, the game jumps to an infinite loop and thus hangs on a black screen. An original cartridge does not contain any SRAM so the write will do nothing, but cartridge copiers contain a large amount of SRAM, which triggers the anti-piracy check.

(Source:  Original TCRF research )

Regional Differences

Title Screen

Japan

International

The Japanese version is called  Final Fight Tough  and features a more spectacular title screen than the international versions, with lightning sparks coming out of the title logo.

Japan

International

As a consequence, the background of the option menu is also different.

Palette Changes

Several enemies use different palettes in the international versions. Keep in mind that the same one enemy may use many different palettes, and these are only some of them. For instance this particular version of Andore only appears three times throughout the entire game.

Japan

International

Japan

International

The enemy "G" is black in the Japanese version and white in the international versions, for both his grey and green clothes variants.

Japan

International

Japan

International

Billy

Japan

International

Johnny

Japan

International

Rick

Japan

International

Andore

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Final Fight

series

Arcade

Final Fight

SNES

Final Fight &#160;&#8226;

Final Fight Guy &#160;&#8226;

Final Fight 2 &#160;&#8226;

Final Fight 3

NES

Mighty Final Fight

Amiga

Final Fight

Sega CD

Final Fight CD

Game Boy Advance

Final Fight One

PlayStation 2, Xbox

Final Fight: Streetwise

See Also

Street Fighter &#160;&#8226;

Slam Masters

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Final_Fight_3_(SNES)&oldid=2007752 "

Categories :

Games developed by Capcom

Games developed by Oersted

Games published by Capcom

SNES games

Games released in 1995

Games released in December

Games released on December 22

Games with hidden development-related text

Games with unused graphics

Games with debugging functions

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with hidden level selects

Games with regional differences

Games with anti-piracy methods

To do

Final Fight series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with anti-piracy methods

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden development-related text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Capcom

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Oersted

Games  >  Games by platform  >  SNES games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Capcom

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1995

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December  >  Games released on December 22

Games  >  Games by series  >  Final Fight series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 7 January 2026, at 12:24.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers