GameResources/NES/MetalGear - TASVideos

TASVideos

Tool-assisted game movies

When human skills are just not enough

Home

Games

Movies

Movie Classes

Publications

Submissions

User Files

Forum

Chat

Articles

Article Index

Game Resources

Emulators

Staff

About

Dark

Light

Auto

Register

Log in

Game Resources

NES

Metal Gear

This page documents information about

Metal Gear

. Many of the tricks demonstrated here are near impossible in real time and documented for the purposes of creating  Tool-assisted Speedruns .

todo: add more stuff

Death Warps

When continuing the game from a password or from dying, there are 6 fixed positions where Solid Snake will start.  4 of them are based on rank, 2 are event driven and override the rank positions:
Rank 1 is at the jungle at the beginning of the game.
Rank 2 is at the south entrance in building 1.
Rank 3 is inside the eastern elevator room of building 1 at floor 1.
Rank 4 is outside of building 1's northern entrance.
Being Captured is in the cell next to Grey Fox.  This is in place until card 3 is obtained.
Destroying the Supercomputer is at the electric floor room before the Supercomputer with the countdown timer running.

There are 3 places where deathwarping is useful to save time:
Deathwarp 1 is done right after getting rank 3 in floor 2 of building 1.  In order to do this, Grey Fox needs to be rescued.
Deathwarp 2 is done on the rooftop of building 1.
Deathwarp 3 is done after Coward Duck.  Rank is reduced intentionally to 2 because that position is faster.

Rocket Launcher (Prisoners)

In order to obtain the rocket launcher, Solid Snake must be rank 4.  A rank-up occurs every 5 prisoners rescued, so a total of 15 must be rescued.  There are 16 prisoners available before the rocket launcher, so 1 prisoner can be skipped.  There are only 3 prisoners that have a detour of more than 25 seconds:
MISSING OUR "GREY FOX" has a detour of 2574 frames
Twin Shot's prisoner (B1 rooftop) has a detour of 2463* frames.  *It is 2495 but this route does not have a 32 frame delay to take damage.
The prisoner in floor 1 of building 2 (near the deep water) has a detour of 2458 frames.

As mentioned in the deathwarp section, rescuing Grey Fox is done for the extra death warp.  The other 2 prisoners are extremely close in timing.  The TAS should skip Twin Shot's prisoner, but a speedrun should get that prisoner because it is difficult to take damage like the TAS.

See also

Game Resources  - we have resource pages for other games too!

Common Tricks  - tricks common to many games

Boss Fighting Guide  - tricks specific to boss fights

GameResources/NES/MetalGear last edited by dunnius  on 1/22/2012 4:52 AM

Page History

Latest diff

List referrers

View Source

&copy; 2026 - TASVideos v2.6-db6dfdb

Terms

API