Kickle Cubicle - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Kickle Cubicle

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Kickle Cubicle

Also known as : Meikyuu Jima (JP)  Developer :

Irem

Publishers :

Irem

(JP/US),

Nintendo

(EU)  Platform :

NES

Released in JP : June 29,&#160;1990  Released in US : September 1990  Released in EU :  1990

This game has  debugging material .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a Data Crystal page

Kickle Cubicle

is one  cool  puzzle game on the NES.

...I'll show myself out...

Contents

1

Sound Test

2

Debug Leftovers

3

Kid Niki Cameo

4

Regional Differences

Sound Test

At the title screen, hold  A + B  on Controller 2 and press  Reset . Change the number with  A  or  B , and press any D-Pad button to play the sound.

(Source: GameFAQs (Flying Omelette))

Debug Leftovers

In the US version, hold  Down  on Controller 1 and press  Reset . In the Japanese version, you must re-enable it first with  Game Genie  code

GAOATEGK  . The screen will turn white in the US version or pink in the Japanese version, then will wait for an additional input. Press one of the following buttons for the corresponding effect:

Start  on Controller 1 - In the US version, this code is able to run the game from the beginning of one of the three lands, but there is no land selection routine left, so you will start from the beginning. In the Japanese version, there is no starting level selection code at all, so you just jump to the title screen.

Select  on Controller 1 - Jump to the special game.

B  on Controller 2 - Go to the Sound Test.

Up  on Controller 2 - Go to the Boss Test mode. This routine should allow you to fight any of the game's three bosses, but there is no code to select which boss to fight. Instead, you can fight only the first one and see the corresponding cutscene if you win. If you lose, you'll return back to the debug mode.

Kid Niki Cameo

At the title screen, before the title menu appears, hold  A  on Controller 2, and  Kid Niki  will appear. This is present in all versions of the game.

(Source: GameFAQs (Flying Omelette))

Regional Differences

To do:  Graphical differences. The object that freezes all enemies is a statue in the Japanese version and an orb in the international versions, at least in World 1.

The Japanese version lets you play the non-boss levels of each world in any order. The international versions were made linear.

The map screen used in the western versions could be opened and closed manually in the Japanese version, letting you move Kickle around the world to select a level.

As a result of the non-linearity, the Japanese version uses longer passwords: 16 characters long from a set of 64. The other versions' passwords are 8 characters long out of a set of 32.

The levels were shuffled around between versions. Generally, the Japanese version is more difficult by about a whole world.

Bosses in the Japanese version take more hits to defeat.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Kickle_Cubicle&oldid=1983700 "

Categories :

Games developed by Irem

Games published by Irem

Games published by Nintendo

NES games

Games released in 1990

Games released in June

Games released on June 29

Games with debugging functions

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Irem

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Irem

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Nintendo

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1990

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in June

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in June  >  Games released on June 29

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 5 December 2025, at 18:57.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers