Laser Invasion - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Laser Invasion

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Laser Invasion

Also known as : Gun Sight (JP)  Developer :

Konami

Publisher :

Konami

Platform :

NES

Released in JP : March 15,&#160;1991  Released in US : June 1991

This game has  regional differences .

This game has  anti-piracy features .

Laser Invasion

is a rather ambitious first-person action game that tries to be a combat chopper simulator, gun shooter, and maze explorer all in one...on the NES.

All three gameplay types are reminiscent of other previously-released Konami games on the system: the chopper segments are very much like the

Top Gun

series (two graphics designers from the series are even thanked in the credits of this game), the side-scrolling shooting segments are like the ones found in

The Adventures of Bayou Billy  , and several Konami games such as

Getsu Fuuma Den

and the

Ganbare Goemon!

series had similar maze exploration segments.

While the game is built around a wacky headset controller, Konami's own LaserScope, it can also be played with a regular controller or the Zapper.

Contents

1

Regional Differences

1.1

Title Screen

1.2

Options Menu

1.3

Briefing

1.4

On-Screen Indicators

1.5

Clear Screen

1.6

Credits

1.7

Difficulty

1.8

Continues

2

Region Switch

2.1

Copyright Screen

2.2

Mission Clear Screen

3

Anti-Piracy

Regional Differences

Title Screen

Japan

US

Aside from the different title and coloring for the Konami logo, the Famicom version starts directly at the title sequence, whereas the NES version adds a copyright screen prior to that.

Options Menu

Japan

US

The options between the two versions are slightly different.

The Famicom version doesn't support the LaserScope headset, since the peripheral was never released in Japan, so it's limited only to the standard controller or a light gun. This would also be the final Famicom game released in Japan to support the light gun.

The name given to the light gun peripheral differs between the two versions: "ZAPPER" in  Laser Invasion , "GUN SYSTEM" in  Gun Sight .

Gun Sight  has a password feature, while  Laser Invasion  instead allows the starting number of lives to be adjusted from 3 to 5. This change affects the cheat codes that are available for each version as well: In  Gun Sight , the password 9PLY allows the player to start the game with 9 lives. This option is available in  Laser Invasion  by moving the cursor on the options menu to "players" and pressing  B ,  Left , or  Right  51 times (it doesn't matter which button is used).

The Famicom version also has a hard mode that can be turned on by simply inputting HARD as the password. The NES version doesn't seem to have an equivalent cheat.

Briefing

Japan

US

The mouth on one of the animation frames of the soldier was touched up for the American version.

On-Screen Indicators

Japan

US

The on-screen indicators used during the combat chopper segments when approaching a supply stop or an enemy base were appropriately localized for their respective versions.

Japan

US

The text warning of defense walls nearby differ. Used at the end of stages 2 and 4.

Clear Screen

Japan

US

The mission clear screen in  Gun Sight  moves the helmet to the left in order to make room for the password given at the end.

Credits

Japan

US

GUN-SIGHT TEAM

STAFF-CREW

GUN-SIGHT / © KONAMI / 1991

SEE YOU ANOTHER MISSION.

The first and last lines of the credits differ.

Difficulty

Some enemies have more HP in  Laser Invasion  than in  Gun Sight , specifically during the side-scrolling stages: the machine gun using enemies that appear near the bottom of the screen have 1 HP in  Gun Sight  but 2 in  Laser Invasion . Similarly, the grey turrets have 2 HP in the Japanese version but 5 in the American version. This makes the US version more difficult during crowded situations and ammunition needs to be watched more carefully.

Continues

Continues work differently between the two versions:

In  Gun Sight , using a continue will take you to the last checkpoint you went through in a mission. The only real penalty is having your score reset to 0.

In  Laser Invasion , you're forced to restart the current mission, though to balance this out the number of continues is upped from 3 to 5.

Region Switch

Japan -> US Switch

US -> Japan Switch

Both versions have an internal region switch, though much simpler than the one found in

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III: The Manhattan Project  .  Game Genie  code

AEKVLZPA

will switch the NES version to Japanese mode, while

PEKTTZAA

will switch the Famicom version to US mode.

When the region switch is activated,  Gun Sight  will switch the options menu to the version used for  Laser Invasion  and vice-versa. Only the names of the light gun peripherals will be left unchanged. However, the password support in  Laser Invasion  is non-functional and will freeze the game when used (making it impossible to use the 9PLY and HARD cheats). On the other hand, the 9-lives cheat from  Laser Invasion  will work perfectly fine on  Gun Sight . The way continues work will also be changed as well.

The title sequence will also change slightly. While the title that gets formed will remain the same, the game will attempt to switch the flying letters to the ones used for the alternate title. However, due to different CHR data, they will not be displayed properly. This is because the Famicom version stores its katakana fonts where the NES version stores the flying letters, whereas the space for the Famicom version's flying letters on the NES version was replaced with placeholder tiles.

The language used for the cutscenes and dialogue will remain unchanged.

Copyright Screen

Japan -> US Switch

US

When the region switch is active, the Famicom version displays an extended version of the US copyright screen which credits Ultra Games, suggesting that  Laser Invasion  was originally going to be published under that branding by Konami. The finalized NES version was published under Konami's own label instead.

Mission Clear Screen

When  Gun Sight  is set to US mode, it will display the same mission clear screen used for  Laser Invasion . However, when  Laser Invasion  is set to Japan mode, it will display an alternate mission clear which omits both the helmet  and  the password. This is likely a side effect of the password feature not being implemented in  Laser Invasion .

Anti-Piracy

As with most of the games Konami has published after 1990, this game features a copy-protection routine: when booting, the game checks for the presence and integrity of a CHR bank with copyright tiles. Part of the copyright message screen contains the string "© KONAMI 1991", and the copy-protection routines check for that string.

If the test fails, the Japanese version turns on the hidden hard mode by default, where one direct hit kills you instantly. Strangely, the US version does all the same checks and sets the same flag...but has none of the effects due to hard mode being nonexistent in that version, even with the region switch set on.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Laser_Invasion&oldid=1978966 "

Categories :

Games developed by Konami

Games published by Konami

NES games

Games released in 1991

Games released in March

Games released on March 15

Games with regional differences

Games with anti-piracy methods

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with anti-piracy methods

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Konami

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Konami

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1991

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in March

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in March  >  Games released on March 15

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 30 November 2025, at 22:43.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers