The Adventures of Bayou Billy - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

The Adventures of Bayou Billy

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

The Adventures of Bayou Billy

Also known as : Mad City (JP)  Developer :

Konami

Publisher :

Konami

Platform :

NES

Released in JP : August 12,&#160;1988  Released in US : June 1989  Released in EU : January 24,&#160;1991  Released in AU :  1991

This game has  hidden development-related text .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused text .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a Data Crystal page

The Adventures of Bayou Billy

is a TRIPLE HARD ACTION GAME starring a Crocodile Dundee-wannabee who must save his Daisy Dukes-wearing girlfriend from a New Orleans mobster. It features beat-'em-up, gun shooting (with optional Zapper support) and vehicular combat stages in an attempt to mix-in a bit of every arcade genre that was popular at the time. It's best remembered for its funky theme music and somewhat absurd difficulty level. Watch the crocs!

Contents

1

Sub-Pages

2

Unused Graphics

3

Unused Text

4

Ending Song in Sound Test

5

Build Dates

Sub-Pages

Regional Differences

OH GOD

Unused Graphics

A frame of Annabelle leaning in to kiss Billy intended for the ending sequence. In the actual game she just closes her eyes as Billy approaches her and it cuts to both of them already making out.

Unused Text

Version

Offset

Text

Mad City

0x17AD0

ダン グールド

The Adventures of Bayou Billy

0x16283

DAN GOULD

A name that is unused in both versions of the game. It appears among the names for all the enemy characters listed during the ending cast roll. This was likely the name intended for the Diver Man/Frogman enemy character, who is simply credited as Diver Man in the Japanese version, the same text string used for his role, presumably a mistake due to a coding oversight. The Frogman enemy was renamed "Jacque Killstow" in the English version, which uses an additional text string that was added to the game's code at offset

0x166B2

right after Michael Maezawa's name.

Version

Offset

Text

Mad City

0x17D22

ニュー　オリンズ

The Adventures of Bayou Billy

0x1652B

NEW ORINZU

This string appears among the text used for the ending staff roll, between "TITLE DESIGN" and "Mt. FUJIO" (DAMIAN FUJIO in the Japanese version). New Orinzu is, of course, a reference to the city of New Orleans where the game takes place, although this was more likely intended to be a nickname for someone in the game's staff than an actual acknowledgement of the city.

Version

Offset

Text

Mad City

0x17BB0

キャスト

The Adventures of Bayou Billy

0x163FC

KI UTO

キャスト means "cast". This text string was likely meant to appear just before the ending cast roll, but in the final game it just goes straight to showing the names of the characters without any setup. The English version of the ROM just replaces it with semi-gibberish (it almost looks like it was going to be transliterated as "kiasuto" until someone realized that it was going to be unused text anyway).

Version

Offset

Text

Mad City

0x13DF0

NEW ORLEANS

The Adventures of Bayou Billy

0x13C08

new orleans

Another unused text string referencing New Orleans, this appears just before the text string that spells out the game's title that is used just before the opening cutscene. Presumably this was meant to be setup text or even a working title for the game. In the English ROM, the text appears entirely in lowercase letters due to how its different character set are arranged.

Curiously, the instructions which tells the player which input device to use on each stage can be found in the Japanese ROM at offsets

0x13D4B

(for the regular controller) and

0x13D71

(for the Zapper), even though they were not used in  Mad City .

Ending Song in Sound Test

By use of the Game Genie code

NYAZZK

you can select the Ending song in the Sound Test.

Build Dates

At the

0x1DBB3

location of the PRG ROM is an ID with a date that version of the game was compiled:

SAMP881226FOR-KONAMI.INC

A similar ID is found in many other Konami games.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=The_Adventures_of_Bayou_Billy&oldid=1548528 "

Categories :

Games developed by Konami

Games published by Konami

NES games

Games released in 1988

Games released in August

Games released on August 12

Games with hidden development-related text

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused text

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

Namespace template missing subpages

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  Namespace template missing subpages

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden development-related text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Konami

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Konami

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1988

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in August

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in August  >  Games released on August 12

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 9 February 2024, at 05:43.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers