Abadox: The Deadly Inner War - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Abadox: The Deadly Inner War

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Abadox

Developer :

Natsume

Publishers :

Natsume

(JP),

Milton Bradley

(US)  Platform :

NES

Released in JP : December 15,&#160;1989  Released in US : March 1990

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused items .

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a bugs page

Oh dear, I do believe I have the vapors.

This page contains content that is not safe for work or other locations with the potential for personal embarrassment. Such as:

Pixelated nude woman.

Abadox

is a tasty side-scrolling shooter by Natsume where you rescue a princess (or your lover, depending on the version of the game) from the guts of a giant alien. It's one of the freakiest and goriest games ever made on the NES. The original Japanese storyline that Milton Bradley had to change as per Nintendo's anti-religious policy also makes it one of the darkest the system has to offer.

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Bit Reversal

3

Unused Graphics

3.1

Stage 1

3.2

Stage 5

3.3

Miscellaneous

4

Unused Items

5

Stage Select

6

Regional Differences

6.1

Title Screen

6.2

Stage 3-2 Boss

6.3

Rescue Cutscene

7

Oddities

7.1

Score Text

Sub-Page

Bugs

Bit Reversal

This game's samples are corrupted by the 2A03's bit reversal bug. For more information, click  here .

Unused Graphics

Stage 1

An unused frame for the stage 1 miniboss, depicting it with its mouth open.

A broken version of the pink crushers in the second part of stage 1. In the final game, they are completely indestructible.

(Source: Rachel Mae)

Stage 5

A scrapped enemy that was supposed to appear in stage 5. Only its tilemaps remain in the ROM.

(Source: Rachel Mae)

Miscellaneous

Some kind of item pod? It's stored with the rest of the powerup graphics. Only its tilemap remains in the ROM.

A top-down view of the annoying little alien hatchling that restricts your movement. This was clearly meant to be used when the creature latches onto your face in overhead stages, but the normal free-floating sprite is used instead.

(Source: Rachel Mae)

Found among the number graphics for your score. The game was probably supposed to replace the score with "PAUSE!" when you pause the game, but it doesn't.

Apparently Parasitis (the thing you're going into in the game) was supposed to be animated in the intro. Instead, only the full shot is used and the animations to the left are not called upon. For a game that pulls off all the stops on the freaky factor, it's surprising they didn't code the animation properly.

(Source: Rick)

Unused Items

There are five unused items hidden in the ROM. The "Z" item looks like a standard powerup, while the numbered items appear to be capsules of some sort.

These can be placed in the game and collected, but unfortunately, they have no effect (the code is literally nothing more than "play sound effect, exit"). If you want to see them in action anyway, or any of the game's other items, change ROM address

6F1D

to one of the following values and destroy the first item carrier:

01  : M (missile)

02  : B (barrier)

03  : S (speed up)

04  : P (shield)

05  : Z

06  : 0

07  : 1

08  : 2

09  : 3

0A  : ring laser

0B  : laser

0C  : three-way

0D  : five-way

(Source: Rachel Mae)

Stage Select

At the copyright screen (or the title screen in the Japanese version), press  Left, Up, Right, Down, Up, Right, Left, Down  (stage select only) or  A, A, Up, B, B, Down, A, B  (stage select, invulnerability, and maximum powerups), then one of the following button codes to start at the corresponding stage:

Start  - Stage 1

Up, Start  - Stage 2

Up, A, Start  - Stage 2 (midway point)

Left, Start  - Stage 3

Left, A, Start  - Stage 3 (midway point)

Down, Start  - Stage 4

Down, A, Start  - Stage 4 (midway point)

Right, Start  - Stage 5

Right, A, Start  - Stage 5 (midway point)

Select, Start  - Stage 6

Select, A, Start  - Stage 6 (midway point)

B, Start  - Stage 7

B, A, Start  - Ending sequence

When using the second code, press  Start  twice at any time to get full shields, barriers, homing missiles, and the laser weapon.

Regional Differences

Title Screen

Title Screen (JP)

Title/Copyright Screen (US)

The title screen was modified a bit for the US release. The "PUSH START KEY" and "&#169; ダイナミックきかく／まきむらただし" (Dynamic Planning/Makimura Tadashi) text were removed to make room for "MILTON BRADLEY PRESENTS", and some drippy gore was removed from the bottom of the logo. The US version also shows an additional copyright screen after pressing  Start . The Japanese version has a quick little Natsume intro screen, which the US version doesn't use, as it skips straight to the title screen upon starting the game. However, the graphics for the removed intro remain in the CHR ROM.

Stage 3-2 Boss

The bones behind the boss of Stage 3 were edited to be shorter in the US version.

Stage 3-2 Boss (JP)

Stage 3-2 Boss (US)

Rescue Cutscene

After beating the final boss, the cutscene with Princess Maria shows her to be nude in the Japanese version. She is clothed in the US release.

The following content is

and has been hidden by default. Click to reveal content:&#160;

Rescue Scene (JP)

Rescue Scene (US)

Oddities

Score Text

In Abadox, each level uses a separate set of number graphics. However, bizarrely enough, they tend to be slightly different from level to level, usually by a pixel or two. This is most apparent in the second half of level 1, which uses a  completely different font  than the rest of the game, including the unused PAUSE! text.

For some reason, the bizarro 1-2 font is  not  present in the Japanese version!

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Abadox:_The_Deadly_Inner_War&oldid=2007790 "

Categories :

Games developed by Natsume

Games published by Natsume

Games published by Milton Bradley

NES games

Games released in 1989

Games released in December

Games released on December 15

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused items

Games with hidden level selects

Games with regional differences

NSFW articles

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused items

Games  >  Games by content  >  NSFW articles

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by NatsumeAtari  >  Games developed by Natsume

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Hasbro  >  Games published by Hasbro Gaming  >  Games published by Milton Bradley

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Natsume

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1989

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December  >  Games released on December 15

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 7 January 2026, at 13:31.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers