EarthBound - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

EarthBound

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

EarthBound

Also known as : Mother 2: Gyiyg no Gyakushu (JP)  Developers :

Ape

&#91;1&#93;  ,

HAL Laboratory

&#91;1&#93;  ,

Pax Softnica

&#91;2&#93;

Publisher :

Nintendo

&#91;1&#93;

Platform :

SNES

Released in JP : August 27,&#160;1994  &#91;1&#93;

&#91;3&#93;  , September 30,&#160;1997 (Nintendo Power)  Released in US : June 5,&#160;1995  &#91;4&#93;

Released in EU : July 18,&#160;2013  &#91;5&#93;

(Wii U Virtual Console)  Released in AU : July 18,&#160;2013  &#91;6&#93;

(Wii U Virtual Console)

This game has  hidden development-related text .

This game has  unused enemies .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused items .

This game has  unused music .

This game has  debugging material .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has  revisional differences .

This game has  anti-piracy features .

This game has a development article

This game has a prototype article

This game has a prerelease article

This game has a Data Crystal page

EarthBound

is Shigesato Itoi's charming, cult-hit RPG about aliens, pre-pubescents, and psychic powers.

A hit success in Japan like  its predecessor ,  EarthBound 's lackluster performance in North America initially doomed it to a life of RPG obscurity elsewhere. It was ultimately saved thanks to the series' inclusion in

Super Smash Bros.  , and a dedicated collection of fans pushing for increased awareness on fan-created websites like Starmen.net. This eventually earned the game a rerelease on the Wii U Virtual Console in 2013, whereupon it promptly topped the service's sales charts. In retrospect,  EarthBound  has become one of the most influential and celebrated RPGs of all time, inspiring  many  popular games in the decades to come (most famously

Undertale  , which practically birthed a genre overnight).

Basically, this game  doesn't  stink. (Though waiting for  the sequel  sure did.)

To do:

Various unused text, documented in Mato's  Legends of Localization  book; some is exclusive to the Japanese version.

Unused map hotspots?

EarthBound  localization files

Mother 1+2  differences, e.g. downgraded audio.

Contents

1

Sub-Pages

2

Unused Graphics

3

Unused Enemies

3.1

Crooked Cop

3.2

Magic Butterfly

4

Unused Items

4.1

Video Relaxant

4.2

Temporary Goods

5

Unused Music

5.1

Entirely Unused

5.2

Partially Unused

5.3

Leftover Music Data

6

Anti-Piracy

6.1

Layer One - Region Check

6.2

Layer Two - SRAM Check

6.3

Layer Three - Increased Encounters

6.4

Layer Four - The Grand Finale

6.5

Notes

7

Unused Event

8

Revisional Differences

8.1

Japanese Text Changes

8.2

PSI Animations

8.3

Cutscene Changes

9

Oddities

10

References

Sub-Pages

To do:  Look for any differences between  Mother 2  and

Mother 1+2  .

Development Info

Prototype Info

Prerelease Info

Regional Differences

The amount of regional changes done for this game is quite a feat.

Using  Game Genie  codes, severe glitching, or an IPS patch, three debug menus can be found in the game:

In-Game Debug Menu

TKSyZyUTI.

Boot-Up Debug Menu

APPLE.

Battle Debug Menu

Pretty nice, except there's no escape.

Unused Graphics

There was a mistake when adding the helicopter sprite to  EarthBound 's files: There is leftover text of the sprite's label, which can be seen in the SpriteGroups section of the  Secrets of MOTHER 2  artbook.

The Tenda lifting the rock to reach the Speak Stone has an animation for it, but it never displays in-game.

At some point, smoke was supposed to puff out of chimneys.

Secrets of MOTHER 2

Final

For some unknown reason, this unused crate got cropped when added to  EarthBound 's files. All that remains is the sprite displayed on the right. The  Secrets of MOTHER 2  artbook shows us what this sprite was supposed to be. The only area it seems to fit is in Jackie's Cafe, as there are similar-looking crates after you complete Moonside.

All of the other Chosen Four characters have this animation, but Poo is the only one who doesn't actually use it. Ness and Paula jump during their name entry screen animations, and Jeff jumps over the fence when he's escaping from his boarding school. The developers probably created the jumping sprites for all four, just in case.

Jumping party member ghost sprites were more than likely meant to display during cutscenes that involved party members jumping if the player triggered a cutscene while having someone in the party unconscious, but no such cutscene made it into the game.

The ghost sprite of Everdred is interesting. It was once speculated that he was supposed to be a party member at some point, but this can be proven false by simply looking at the sprite group's frames: There aren't any sprites for him facing in other directions, and it's only facing forward which means this was a static sprite meant to display an action during a cutscene just like jumping sprites. The scene where Everdred lies on the ground in Fourside was where this sprite was most likely meant to be used. The game leaves it unclear as to whether he died following your encounter, but this sprite would indicate that he did.

Four sprites of King climbing a rope or ladder. This would suggest two things: either King was supposed to stay with you longer in the game, or Ness' original travels through Onett were supposed to include something to climb. However, it could be that these were created just in case they needed to be used...although even if you use the various debug menus to put King in your party and travel to places he shouldn't be, these graphics  still  won't show as the playable character graphics table doesn't include it.

Ness sleeping with his hat on.

There exist screenshots of having King during the day, and according to  Legends of Localization  (Page 96), Onett taking place during the night at the beginning of the game was added right before  EarthBound 's release. It's possible Ness didn't start in his pajamas and instead started in his normal outfit, which could explain this sprite's existence as a leftover from when it took place during the day. What's unclear is why the sprite is offset to be at the top of the frame border instead of the bottom like the used sleeping sprite.

An X in a rectangular outline, present only in the Japanese ROM. The American version replaced this with the sprite below.

Ness' mother sitting. This is in the same place as the above sprite, and was created by someone on  EarthBound 's localization team. Unclear purpose.

Ness and Paula sitting with their eyes closed. According to  Tomato's website , this is a leftover from a  mostly deleted  cutscene in Threed showing the two being dragged to the underground prison present in development files of the game.

This sprite appears  when talking to Jackie from above , but since that is impossible during normal gameplay, it goes unused.

A capsule that looks exactly like the one containing Starman Jr. in

EarthBound Beginnings  . This is found among the enemy-out-of-battle sprites, so it was probably supposed to be used as an alternative to the odd octahedrons used to represent enemies in the last areas of the game, or as the out-of-battle sprite of Starman Jr. and/or Starman Deluxe.

Probably just an asset they put in there in case they needed one, and it turned out they didn't.

According to  Secrets of MOTHER 2 , this was an emote sprite meant to display on cars to show that they're honking. Most likely would have been used during the traffic jam in Dusty Dunes Desert.

A tiny Ness posing and a tiny photographer hanging around. Clearly meant for the Lost Underworld.

A tiny Escargo Express guy, also clearly meant for the Lost Underworld. In-game, calling Escargo Express in the Lost Underworld causes the delivery to fail with the "couldn't find you" message.

A flag, probably meant to be used as decoration somewhere, though it doesn't seem to fit anywhere in the game.

A beating heart. Maybe some romance sequences were planned but didn't make it in?

A Sanchez brother cheering, meant for when you won something in the slot machine game.

(Source: Tomato, Starmen.net)

Partially unused. In Onett, Frank's steam-powered robot, the Frankystein Mark II, is partially obscured by a tree on the field. When you defeat it, it disappears from the spot it stood behind the tree, thus rendering about half of its overworld sprite unused.

Used, but difficult to see. The eels are almost never seen outside of the water in Deep Darkness, the only area in which they appear. They  can  be coaxed out of the water, but doing so is  very  difficult, can only be done in one or two places, and you have to be doing so intentionally.

King as a puppy is seen in the cutscene after obtaining the final melody to complete the Eight Melodies. The problem is, puppy King never moves up or down; he only moves sideways in a northeasterly direction and stops.

This small bird thing... is just never seen, ever. It looks like it could have served a use pretty much anywhere. It is similar to the sparrows found in

Mother 3  .

Venus has two additional strange animation frames she never uses in either of her performances. Possibly intended to be used for her performance with the Runaway Five.

The bus driver has an additional frame facing right/left, possibly intended for a stopped bus facing north/south which never happens.

Whatever this  EarthBound Beginnings -esque box was intended for, it isn't used.

Poo's Master cannot be talked to from above at any point without hacking, as he never leaves his normal spot.

A sprite of Kirby, based on his appearance in

Kirby's Dream Course

(which was in development around the same time). Only used in the  Boot-Up Debug Menu  as its cursor. Interestingly,  it differs slightly from the sprite used in that game .

Unused Enemies

Crooked Cop

(JP: "ダーティコップ", literally "Dirty Cop")

Identical to Captain Strong in every way but name. This may have been an earlier version of him.

Magic Butterfly

Accessible by using battle formation 480, though it has no attacks or graphics in the data. The  Secrets of MOTHER 2  artbook revealed that a battle sprite was made for it.

Unused Items

To do:  Strings would probably help.

Video Relaxant

The item with hex number

CB

goes unused. It does nothing when used, and the in-game description is an apt "What the hey is this?" The Japanese version calls it "Video Drug", but has basically the same description.

(Source:  EarthBound Central  (Japanese name))

Temporary Goods

Unlike the Video Relaxant, the Temporary Goods has a clear description: "A key given to you by a maid who works at the Monotoli building." This indicates that Electra was supposed to give you the "key" in exchange for the Yogurt Dispenser, and this would have unlocked the second elevator (which is inaccessible beforehand) to access the path that leads to Monotoli himself; in-game, however, the second elevator is unlocked once Electra takes the Yogurt Dispenser.

Putting the item in your inventory before going into the building does nothing, and no other unused text correlates to the item.

Unused Music

Entirely Unused

An unused version of the "No Sounds" variation of the completed Sound Stone, never played because the game exits the Sound Stone after the melody finishes.

It can be heard by using  Pro Action Replay  codes

C1F04ABD 80214090

at the File Select screen, or by listening to BGM

A8

in the Kirby debug menu.

(Source: nensondubois)

An arrangement of the Underground theme from  Earthbound Beginnings  (used in areas such as Ninten's basement or the Underground Stream in Magicant) that sounds more horrific than the original. Listen to it by playing BGM

88  .

An unfinished-sounding variant of Pokey's Theme (Helicopter). It uses the same looped helicopter sound effect BRR instrument, but is pitched two octaves higher than it should be. It also slowly rises in pitch, which might be to evoke the helicopter taking off. The first three channels contain the sound effect, but it cuts off halfway through the pattern. Listen to it by playing BGM

B4  . The version of this track that is used in-game is BGM

AC  .

This sounds like an unfinished version of the Sky Runner crashing sound. Listen to it by playing BGM

6D  , and compare it to the version used in-game, BGM

6E  .

Partially Unused

To do:  Supposedly, part of "the battle intro music" is unused.

In the game's intro, this plays before transitioning to a different track. This skips the last 15 seconds of the song.

The track used when Ness exits Magicant is cut off around the 23-second mark, leaving 15 seconds unheard in-game.

When Tessie leaves the map on the opposite side of the Winters bank, a few seconds get cut off (the later visit's version more so than the first one). The music then segues into a permanent loop of the standard Tessie travel section of the music with different instrumentation.

The Winters intro isn't intended to be played past a certain point, but if it does, all channels but one cut out at minimum volume and the music eventually loops regardless. Presumably, this intro is just a quick hack of the Snowman theme normally used in the boarding school.

Leftover Music Data

To do:  There are more of these in the game's data. Specifically, in the music for a few battle themes.

Certain music tracks contain data that never gets played. Often, these unused portions are earlier drafts of the music in which they reside.

EarthBound

Mother 1+2

This would seem to indicate that the attract mode music was initially going to head in a different direction or have a different transitional section but was ultimately replaced. Surprisingly, this bit also went unused for the  Mother 1+2  version of the same song with  even more  transitions starting at 1:10.

An unused section of "Battle Against a Weak Opponent" that's more psychedelic than the rest of the song. It doesn't initialize its own instruments, but they seem to match up when carried over from a used pattern, so this may have been part of a different progression that got scrapped.

An unused section of the Belch battle music, probably an idea for an alternate transition into the repeat. Note that it sounds a lot like the main theme from  Super Mario Bros.

A fast set of drums found in the file for Threed's "happy" music. It's slightly different from the fast drums used in the bridge of this song, so this may have been temporary.

A small beat meant for Fourside which seems to indicate it was to have a simpler bridge at some point before getting replaced with a better one.

Seems to be a higher-pitched early draft of the Deep Darkness music, later replaced by the lower-pitched version.

A more complete idea that was never used in-game was this section of music from Magicant. It has the same quirky sound and feel of the final track, but a completely different melody.

This sounds like a potential ending for the music "Good Friends Bad Friends", the pre-credits sequence where the cast of the game appears. It was likely not used due to it being very brief and unsatisfying, and hence requiring the final version's ending to be rewritten.

This outro was actually used in the version of "Runaway Five on the Move!" present in the  Super Famicom Magazine Volume 22: New Game Sound Museum  compilation CD, released in 1994.

The end credits music has an unused section that initializes all the instruments, indicating that it was used at the beginning, and plays the first three notes of the melody leading into the music. In the final, this was replaced with a more anticipatory section that fades in and builds up musically to match the cinematic of the scene.

Also in the credits music is an unused section that seems to be nothing more than the string section of a portion of the music, however, the chord progression used is slightly different from the final. This would indicate that the music may have been slightly different there as the composer was trying different ideas.

Anti-Piracy

EarthBound  is surprisingly heavy on anti-piracy measures, some of which are quite fiendish. High-accuracy emulators do not trigger these anti-piracy measures.

Layer One - Region Check

The first layer is pretty simple: it checks the console's PPU to make sure the game isn't running on a PAL (Europe, Australia) SNES. If it is, the game fades in on the usual region lockout error and hangs. (Notice that "game pak" is misspelled as "game pack".)

Layer Two - SRAM Check

Mother 2

EarthBound

This is the first real barrier against pirates. A subroutine at

$C0A11C  , called at startup, checks that there's only 8KB of SRAM (cartridge copiers, by their nature, tend to have more). This is done by first writing the developer string  HAL Laboratory, inc.  (located at

$2009B5  ) to SRAM at every 500-byte offset starting at

$306000

to verify that there is SRAM. Next, the game writes two different values at

$307FF0

and

$317FF0

and checks if they are the same to verify that the SRAM mirror is in the correct location. If either of these checks fail, the game gives you this stern warning and locks up.

In addition, Movement Script 1 calls a subroutine at

$C1FFD3

which takes a checksum of the code at

$C0A11C-$C0A150  . If there are any alterations to that memory range, a non-zero value is stored to

$7EB539  , bringing up  another  copyright infringement screen.

Layer Three - Increased Encounters

A third, far more subtle layer of protection is activated if the game detects that the previous layers have been disabled. There's a check at

$C0281A

to see if

$7EB539

is 0. If it isn't, enemy presence is ramped up to  absurd  levels to make the game borderline unplayable. Some areas even have enemies that aren't supposed to be in those locations, like Spiteful Crows in the Scaraba Pyramid.

Enemies in the usually enemy-free Saturn Valley. (Mad Duck appears in this location in a normal game as well, though it usually can't be fought.)

Dense enemy presence in Scaraba.

Far more mushrooms and sprouts than usual.

A few too many sprouts.

Eight enemies visible in Magicant.

...Crows in the Pyramid?

In addition, there are a few locations that try to spawn so many enemies that the game outright crashes. These areas are usually locations which are freed from evil (such as Threed and the Threed tunnel), but may also include unexpected places such as the Topolla Theater main office. If the game doesn't crash, there's a high chance that extremely unusual enemies will spawn, such as enemies which appear as NPCs or player characters and use garbage values for items and Experience Points (giving things like Backstage Passes and 3,000,000+ Exp.), common enemies like Ramblin' Evil Mushrooms and Black Antoids which act like bosses, and even blank NPCs which can't be interacted with in any way! The glitched enemies usually can't be fought and will crash the game in a number of ways if confronted, but this can be avoided by using an "auto-win every fight" code.

Layer Four - The Grand Finale

And finally, should you brave everything else, there's one final, devious checksum routine at

$C3FDC5  , checking

$C0A11C-$C0A150

to see if all the previous layers had been defeated, which is triggered after Pokey turns off the Devil's Machine and insults Giygas. If the game detects anything awry, it crashes and  deletes your save files .

Notes

For those who'd like to see the effects in action, here are some cheat codes to activate the anti-piracy effects without having to delve into a hex editor. Naturally, you should back up your SRAM first when attempting any of this.

Use Game Genie code

DF5E-AAD7

to activate the anti-piracy message (layer two).

Use this code to increase the encounter rate (layer three):

Action Replay

C0281D80

Game Genie

6D4F-7704

If the above code freezes the game, use this code as well:

Action Replay

C0281E1A

Game Genie

FC4F-7764

This code activates the final save wipe at the end of the game (layer four):

Action Replay

C3FDDAD0

Game Genie

2DE2-546E

(Source: Starmen.net and EarthBound Central for  copy protection info  and  the "crazy enemies" code )

Unused Event

Normally when battling the Clumsy Robot, you have already helped out the Runaway Five with their debt. At the end of the Clumsy Robot battle, they appear, thus ending the fight. With the assistance of a walk-through-walls cheat, you can bypass the required event of helping the Runaway Five and see an alternate ending: the Clumsy Robot spews out smoke, causing the party to end up being overcome by the smoke. The game then teleports them outside the Monotoli building.

Revisional Differences

Japanese Text Changes

To do:  Get the original Japanese text.

From

Mother 1+2

onward,  Mother 2  received minor text changes across various revisions. Most of these changes were made to comply with  CERO .

Changes in all revisions

Pokey's mom originally refers to Buzz Buzz as a "pesky toilet fly". The word "toilet" was removed in future releases.

A sign in Onett's hospital originally advertises a Gravestone Burial Sale for people that pass away in the hospital. In future releases, the sign states that the hospital is  not  holding a Gravestone Burial Sale.

After Paula is rescued, a boy in Twoson originally claimed that Paula kicked her kidnapper in the balls.

"Balls" was changed to "vital spot" in  Mother 1+2  and the demo included in

Super Smash Bros. Brawl  .

The Japanese Virtual Console releases later changed this to "crotch".

A sign in Threed originally states that players should take a break every two hours. In future releases, this was changed to one hour. However, Ness' father calls every two hours in all releases.

When the announcer introduces Venus in Fourside's theater, he originally says "Sing and kill me!" In future releases, this was changed to "Sing and love me!"

When Tony asks for the player's name, he originally refers to "the one holding the controller." In future releases, he refers to "the one playing this game" instead.

A man in Scaraba originally states that Pokey "crapped on the ground." In future releases, this was changed to "did his business". A similar change was made in  EarthBound .

When Master Barf challenges the party, he originally says "Get covered in puke and die!"

In  Mother 1+2  and the  Super Smash Bros. Brawl  demo, this was changed to "Suffer until you vomit!" (the latter being changed is rather strange, as the demo {as with all  Brawl  demos} has a very short time limit, thus not allowing you to get anywhere near close to Master Barf).

The Virtual Console releases changed this to "Get covered in me and suffer!"

Originally, the hint man in Summers accidentally refers to the Stoic Club as a strip club. In future releases, "strip" was changed to "stri--".

Changes in most revisions

A mole in Onett originally explains that the TV screen will change colors when you touch an enemy. In  Mother 1+2 , the word "TV" is removed, while the Virtual Console releases also modify the line.

After Ness defeats the punks in Onett, the mayor originally states that Ness spit on the bullies and made them wet their pants. This part of the mayor's dialogue was removed in  Mother 1+2 , and the line was further modified in the Virtual Console releases.

A vendor in Twoson's park originally states that flies swarm on his goods, giving them a nice flavor. In  Mother 1+2 , he simply states that his food attracts flies, while the Virtual Console releases state that his goods' flavor attracts flies.

Changes only in  Mother 1+2

A librarian in Onett originally explains that the Town Map can be pulled up with the X button. In  Mother 1+2 , she vaguely references the Start button instead.

Two typos were corrected.

Originally, a newspaper headline in Threed mistakenly says that the zombies have left Twoson instead of Threed. This was fixed in  Mother 1+2 .

(Source: Legends of Localization Book 2: EarthBound)

PSI Animations

To do:  Get footage of the "modified colors" in the Switch Online re-release; gif versions of the animation variants.

The following content may induce seizures and has been hidden by default. Click to reveal:&#160;

Both the Wii U Virtual Console and SNES Classic re-releases of  Mother 2  and  EarthBound  add a blur effect to several of the flashier PSI animations, such as PSI Rockin'. This is standard policy for Virtual Console games, with the idea being to reduce the risk of causing seizures. Because the blur effect is applied in real-time, it does, however, have the peculiar side effect of the game blurring whenever any rapid full-screen animations occur (such as when taking mortal damage or using PSI Teleport), or not appearing when it reasonably should.

(Source:  EarthBound Central )

Instead of using a blur effect, the Switch Online re-release modifies the colors of some of the flashier PSI animations.

Cutscene Changes

In the SNES Classic version, the flashes before the Carpainter battle and during the robot surgery were toned down.

(Source:  EarthBound Central )

Oddities

To do:  Investigate what is causing this; look into the game's code.

After Buzz Buzz comes from the beam of light, once it starts closing, pressing  Select  on controller port 2 will cause the beam of light to invert for some reason. It is unclear if it is a development leftover or a bug.

References

↑

1.0

1.1

1.2

1.3

MOTHER2 ギーグの逆襲／EarthBound | HAL Laboratory

↑

Seemingly carried over from the first game to initial development of this one.

↑

ＭＯＴＨＥＲ２　ギーグの逆襲 - nintendo.co.jp

↑

EARTHBOUND  BREAKS THE RULES OF ROLE-PLAYING GAMES

↑

EarthBound | Super Nintendo | Games | Nintendo UK

↑

Wii U - Nintendo.com.au

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Mother/EarthBound

series

NES

EarthBound Beginnings

SNES

EarthBound  ( Localization Prototype )

Game Boy Advance

Mother 1+2 &#160;&#8226;

Mother 3

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=EarthBound&oldid=2007959 "

Categories :

Games developed by Ape

Games developed by HAL Laboratory

Games developed by Pax Softnica

Games published by Nintendo

SNES games

Games released in 1994

Games released in August

Games released on August 27

Games with hidden development-related text

Games with unused enemies

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused items

Games with unused music

Games with debugging functions

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with regional differences

Games with revisional differences

Games with anti-piracy methods

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Mother series

Hidden category:

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with anti-piracy methods

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden development-related text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with revisional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused enemies

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused items

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused music

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Creatures  >  Games developed by Ape

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by HAL Laboratory

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Pax Softnica

Games  >  Games by platform  >  SNES games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Nintendo

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1994

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in August

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in August  >  Games released on August 27

Games  >  Games by series  >  Mother series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 7 January 2026, at 19:20.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers