The Immortal (NES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

The Immortal (NES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

The Immortal

Developer :

Sandcastle

Publishers :

Electronic Arts

(original),

Piko Interactive

(Nintendo Switch Online)  Platform :

NES

Released in US : November 1990  Released in EU : July 15,&#160;2020 (Nintendo Switch Online)  Released in AU : July 15,&#160;2020 (Nintendo Switch Online)  Released in KR : July 15,&#160;2020 (Nintendo Switch Online)

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused text .

This game has  debugging material .

Contrary to the title, you are anything but immortal in this frustratingly cryptic and surprisingly violent Nintendo-approved game. The impressive graphics and creepy music are almost enough to distract you from how easy it is to die in this game, and the methods of which seem almost infinite.

Unused Graphics

Treasure Pile

An unused pile of treasure that's present in other versions of the game, but went unused here for some reason. If the other versions are anything to go by, it would have acted similar to the treasure chest, which is perhaps why it was ultimately cut.

Ulindor's Death

Similar to other versions, it looks like it was possible for Ulindor to be killed by a goblin at the start of Level 1 should the player not intervene quickly enough. These sprites and the death animation go unused here. It is still possible to see the animation in game via hacking, by starting at Level 1, walking into the room where Ulindor is fighting the goblin, walking carefully as not to trigger the goblin, and changing CPU memory address  $06C7  from  $A3  to  $03 , which implies that 10 hits from the goblin would be enough to kill him. Note that killing Ulindor in Level 1 prevents Level 2 from being completed, as he does not give you the key you need to open the chest containing the spores, gold and bait, all of which are required for beating later levels.

Unused Text

Some versions of The Immortal have a scene in the 2nd to last level where Ulindor tries to kill you for knowing too much. In the NES version, this was replaced with a regular goblin that says he was sent in by Mordamir. However, the monologue Ulindor gives in the other versions is still present inside the NES ROM:

You found Dunric, did you? 
What did he tell you? 
He told you about Mordamir, didn't he? 
Then I'll have to kill you.

CPU Register Debug Screen

It is possible to get this screen to appear by entering a valid password that gives invalid stats, such as  993syyyyyyyyy  which  should  give you 15 hit-points, 255 power, everything in the inventory, 2550 gold and on level 15. The middle character, "X", no longer exists in the game's font and appears corrupt as a result.

Although the game waits for the player to press  B  to continue, the code seems to be broken, and the CPU will eventually hit invalid code and sometimes lock up after the button is pressed.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=The_Immortal_(NES)&oldid=1673614 "

Categories :

Games developed by Sandcastle

Games published by Electronic Arts

Games published by Piko Interactive

NES games

Games released in 1990

Games released in November

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused text

Games with debugging functions

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Sandcastle

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Electronic Arts

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Piko Interactive

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1990

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in November

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 17 September 2024, at 17:41.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers