Kabuki Quantum Fighter - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Kabuki Quantum Fighter

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Kabuki Quantum Fighter

Also known as : Jigoku Gokuraku Maru (JP)  Developer :

Human Entertainment

Publishers :

Pack-In-Video

(JP),

HAL America

(US),

Nintendo

(EU)  Platform :

NES

Released in JP : December 21,&#160;1990  Released in US : January 1991  Released in EU : February 20,&#160;1992

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused abilities .

This game has  unused text .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a Data Crystal page

Kabuki Quantum Fighter

is an NES game that involves hurling quantum formulas at your opponent.

Just kidding! You actually whip enemies with your luxurious red hair.  For reals.

Contents

1

Level Select

2

Unused Weapon

3

C965 Over

4

Sound Test

5

Intro Oddity

6

Regional Differences

6.1

Copyright info

6.2

Publisher logo

6.3

Title Screen

7

Unused Fanfares

Level Select

To activate a level select, press the following on Controller 2 at the title screen:  A (&#215;8), B (&#215;4), Right (&#215;16) . When the "ROUND 1 START" screen appears, you can press  Up  or  Down  on Controller 1 to select your starting level. There are 256 level numbers to choose from, but everything above C will freeze the game.

This also activates a debug mode of sorts. During game play,  Up  and  Down  on Controller 2 can be used to alter the player's chip levels, and pressing  A  on Controller 2 will skip the level.

Unused Weapon

At the cost of a whopping 16 chip points, this unfinished sixth special weapon sends an orb straight up into the air, creating a rain of glitched projectiles (the red/orange shapes in the right image). This weapon has no associated sound effects, and does not hurt enemies. It may be enabled by setting

$00D0

to

07  .

The weapon's status bar icon.

C965 Over

This enigmatic screen is stored alongside the GAME OVER and TIME OVER screens, and behaves identically to a TIME OVER when activated. No idea what this could have possibly been used for.

Sound Test

Press  B  at the end of the credits for a sound test screen. In the US version, Sound Test can be accessed at the game start. When the HAL logo animation stops, press  Select + B + Down  on Controller 1.

(Source: GameFAQs (Llamaman2)

Intro Oddity

The Famicom version's intro cutscene introduces the protagonist as "Bobby Yano". However, the letters at the bottom of the tileset reveal that a different name was likely considered at one point, possibly "Edword Smith". It's worth noting that several of these letters are not used at all, and all but one of the letters for "Bobby Yano" are stored in the top half of the tileset, disconnected from the rest.

The US version changed the protagonist's name to "Scott O'Conner", utilizing a couple more of these letters, but the rest are still stored separately in the top half of the tileset.

Regional Differences

To do:  Specific differences  here

The Famicom version is actually a follow-up to the 1990 Japanese film  Jipangu  (AKA  Zipang ). The NES version removed a lot of these influences so the game can stand alone as its own work. This includes changing a lot of the closeup graphics and the storyline, although there were other unrelated minor differences as well.

Copyright info

The US and European versions added copyright info when booting up the game, listed Human Creative Corp. as developer, which wasn't credited in Japanese version. the European version is same as above, but changed "HAL America, Inc." to "HAL Laboratory, Inc.", "Licensed by Nintendo of America Inc." is shortened to "Licensed by Nintendo".

US

Europe

Publisher logo

The US and European versions also added publisher logo before the opening cutscene, the US version shows HAL America logo in white square background, while the European version shows HAL Laboratory's "HALKEN" logo which used from 1991 to 1998.

US

Europe

Title Screen

The US and European versions feature redone title screen.

Japan

US

EUR

Unused Fanfares

Download  Kabuki Quantum Fighter NSF Rerips

File:

Kabuki Quantum Fighter NSF Re-Rip.7z  ( info )

There are 2 fanfare songs in the sound driver that was never called (probably intended for testing), alongside with a bunch of sound effects.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Kabuki_Quantum_Fighter&oldid=1931864 "

Categories :

Games developed by Human Entertainment

Games published by Pack-In-Video

Games published by HAL America

Games published by Nintendo

NES games

Games released in 1990

Games released in December

Games released on December 21

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused abilities

Games with unused text

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with hidden level selects

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused abilities

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Human Entertainment

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by HAL Laboratory  >  Games published by HAL America

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Marvelous Inc.  >  Games published by Marvelous AQL  >  Games published by Marvelous Entertainment  >  Games published by Victor Interactive Software  >  Games published by Pack-In-Video

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Nintendo

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1990

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in December  >  Games released on December 21

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 27 September 2025, at 17:54.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers