Ghostbusters (NES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Ghostbusters (NES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Ghostbusters

Developer :

Workss

Publishers :

Tokuma Shoten

(JP),

Activision

(US)  Platform :

NES

Released in JP : September 22,&#160;1986  Released in US : October 1988

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused text .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a prototype article

An appalling conversion of the computer game, the NES

Ghostbusters

is notorious for its poor presentation, badly-designed mechanics, areas that weren't an issue in the other ports, and a super-hard and grueling staircase sequence which prevents almost all players from reaching the final boss fight and finishing the game.

At least it has a pretty okay rendition of the  Ghostbusters  theme. Too bad it plays  throughout the entire game .

GHESTBUSTRES!

Contents

1

Sub-Pages

2

Unused Graphics

3

Regional Differences

3.1

Title Screen

3.2

Copyright Screen

3.3

Shop

3.4

Ghost Alarm Resale Value

3.5

Missing Ending

3.6

Other Differences

Sub-Pages

Prototype Info

Unused Graphics

While the third item in this picture is unused, the first two  do  appear in the game, but only for 2 frames. They can appear inside random doors of the Zuul Building, accompanied by the "gas filling up" sound effect when you collect them. The "P" gives you 1 more hit point, while the second icon gives you 3 more. The second icon resembles the Tokuma Soft logo seen on the Famicom version's manual, but it only appears as one half in the game, so it was probably meant to be mirrored.

Two sprites for a happy ghost, and what looks like a small flag with an "S", stored during the final boss. The palettes are unknown.

Unused

Used

If the two Ghostbusters cross the streams as they're trying to catch ghosts, then they will appear to explode... then immediately turn back to normal and walk away, unharmed. This is very likely a mistake, considering the "explosion" sprite is just the individual parts of the stream but miscolored, and there is an unused falling sprite directly below these tiles. This fallen sprite is probably what was supposed to be used.

Touching a ghost inside the Zuul Building will cause the Ghostbusters to fall, but that uses a different sprite. Touching a ghost on the outside streets does nothing.

Regional Differences

Title Screen

Japan

US

The Japanese version simply says "PUSH START BUTTON", while the US version replaces the text with "LICENSED BY NINTENDO OF AMERICA INC." The text even flashes, even if it's supposed to only be a copyright disclaimer in the US version.

Copyright Screen

Japan

US

"INC." was added to the end of "COLUMBIA PICTURES INDUSTRIES".

The "CO.,LTD." text for the Tokuma Shoten copyright was kept on the same line in order to make room for additional copyrights to Activision and Nintendo of America. Strangely, the Family Computer is still mentioned in the US release.

The Japanese version refers to the developer as "Workss", but the US version refers to them as "Bits". Additionally, the copyright year was updated.

Shop

Japan

US

The shop in the Japanese version is called "Shop Workss", in reference to the game's developer. This answers the AVGN's question of who is providing the Ghostbusters with their equipment - the game developers!

Ghost Alarm Resale Value

In the Japanese version, it's possible to earn enough money to enter the ZUUL Building early by buying and selling the Ghost Alarm over and over again as its purchase price is lower than its resale value. This oversight was fixed in the US version.

Missing Ending

The Japanese version doesn't show the ending and credits as a result of the wrong CHR-ROM page being loaded. Instead, beating the game produces a blank screen that lasts for about a minute, eventually followed by the text "りり" (riri) scrolling onto the middle of the screen.

Game Genie  code

PAXKKLAA

will fix the ending:

This text is only slightly different from the US version's ending, with the latter correcting "grate" to "great". Still doesn't make it  true , mind you...

Other Differences

During the driving segments, the Japanese version has you avoiding two cars at a time, which was reduced to just one for the US release.

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Ghostbusters

series

Arcade

The Real Ghostbusters

NES

Ghostbusters  ( Prototype )&#160;&#8226;

Ghostbusters II &#160;&#8226;

New Ghostbusters II  ( US Prototype )

Sega Master System

Ghostbusters

Genesis

Ghostbusters

Game Boy

Ghostbusters II &#160;&#8226;

The Real Ghostbusters

Game Boy Advance

Extreme Ghostbusters: Code Ecto-1

Windows, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360

The Video Game &#160;&#8226;

Sanctum of Slime

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Ghostbusters_(NES)&oldid=1941918 "

Categories :

Games developed by Workss

Games published by Tokuma Shoten

Games published by Activision

NES games

Games released in 1986

Games released in September

Games released on September 22

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused text

Games with regional differences

Ghostbusters series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Bits Laboratory  >  Games developed by Workss

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Microsoft  >  Games published by Activision Blizzard  >  Games published by Activision

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Tokuma Shoten

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1986

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in September

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in September  >  Games released on September 22

Games  >  Games by series  >  Ghostbusters series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 17 October 2025, at 19:06.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers