Mission: Impossible (NES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Mission: Impossible (NES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Mission: Impossible

Developer :

Konami

Publishers :

Ultra Games

(US),

Palcom Software

(EU)  Platform :

NES

Released in US : September 1990  Released in EU : November 28,&#160;1991

This game has  hidden development-related text .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a prerelease article

Mission: Impossible

is a top-down action-adventure game based on the 1988 iteration of the TV series with gameplay very reminiscent of the Metal Gear series, albeit more action-oriented. Despite being made by Japanese developers, the game was never released in Japan; however, it is notable for having a fully translated French release, something very rare for an NES game, which could probably be explained by the fact that the new TV series aired on national television in France around the time the game was released (and the old series also aired in the late 80's).

This webpage will self-destruct in 5 seconds.

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Build Dates

3

Regional Differences

3.1

Difficulty

3.2

Cheat Code

3.3

Graphical Differences

3.4

Manhole Cover

3.5

French Version

3.6

Car Horn

3.7

Credits

Sub-Page

Prerelease Info

Build Dates

Present at the end of the PRG ROMs of the US, European and French versions. A similar ID can be found in many other Konami games.

US Version

EU Version

FR Version

MAST900417

MSTR910708

MSTR910718

"MAST" or "MSTR" means it's the "master" version of the game, and the numbers represent the date. So, the US build was compiled on April 17, 1990, the European build on July 8, 1991, and the French version on July 18, 1991.

Regional Differences

Difficulty

In the North American version, a lot of enemies and environmental traps deal double or sometimes even triple the damage compared to the European versions, some examples:

Fido T. Flamethrower (enemy throwing Molotov cocktails) deal 6 points of damage in the US version, versus 2 in the European versions. In other words, 2 hits are enough for a kill in the US version. It is the same with Jorgé Burns (enemy using a flame-thrower) in the final stage and the bombs from the grey version of Slash Stiletto at the end of the first stage.

Bullets from Pistol Pete Piranovich (the purple enemy) deal 2 points of damage in the US version, 1 in the European version.

A sword hit from the nameless stationary knights in stage 2 deal 2 points of damage in the US version, 1 in the European versions. As for their walking counter-parts, they deal 3 points of damage versus 1, and their debris deal 2 versus of 1.

The flame-thrower wall traps also deal 6 points of damage in the US version, versus 2 in the European version.

Cheat Code

The US version contains an invulnerability cheat code which replenishes HP when it reaches 0. It is turned on by using stage 1 password  LRHN  and pressing  A  on controller 1 while holding  Left, A, B  on controller 2.

This cheat code does not work in the European versions. The routine that would enable the cheat code still exists with a different set of inputs checked against (hold  Up, Right, B, A  on controller 2), but it's commented out, and even if it were reachable, there wouldn't be any way to enter the cheat code, because unlike the US version, the European versions read input from both controllers, and pressing  B  on controller 2 would just exit the password screen.

It is still possible to turn on the cheat in the European versions by using a cheat device to set value  01  to the RAM address  $0033 .

Graphical Differences

US

Europe

The computer used in the intro and on the password screen has a lighter palette in the European versions. It is the same with the computer at the end of the game, and you may also note that the entire screen differs.

US

Europe

The HUD is positioned a few pixel downwards in the European versions compared to the US version and an extra row of pixel is hidden by the black bar in the European version. Furthermore, the red bars are not positioned properly in the European versions, indeed the tile used for it is offset 1 pixel lower in the European versions.

US

Europe

Some of the passes are missing their bottom left corners in the European versions.

Manhole Cover

US

Europe

The European version of Area 1 has an extra manhole that the US version lacks. Attempting to open this with Max's bombs will freeze the game.

(Source:  VG Maps ])

French Version

US/Europe

France

In the US and European versions some backgrounds elements in Stage 2 (water, boats) are animated: as is common on NES the animation is done by switching between two graphical banks.

In the French version there is no animation, indeed one of the two graphical bank used for Stage 2 was replaced by an upgraded font only the French version uses: there are lower case letters, whereas the other versions only use upper case, and there are variants of the letters "o", "a", "i", "e" with accents, which are presumably the entire reason behind this drastic change.

Note that in order to make space for the accents the lower case letters have spacing at the tops of the tiles, whereas the original font consisting of upper case letters and numbers has spacing at the bottom of the tiles. As a result upper case and lower case letters aren't properly aligned together in game as lower case letters appear 1 pixel lower.
Not leaving any spacing at the bottom of a character also has the added effect of leaving no room for the bottom parts of letters like "p" or "q", which leads to odd results as can be seen in the above picture.

Car Horn

To do:  Upload the sound files for both horns.

The car horn has a different sound in the European version.

Credits

Some of the credits differ depending on the region:

Programmer

US

Europe

S. Fukuoka

K. Aoyama

Character

US

Europe

Togachan

K. Ogawa

K. Ogawa

Y. Kambe

Special Thanks

US

Europe

H. Yakuza

H. Takeyasu

Yukichan

Uekoh Yukichan

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Mission: Impossible

series

NES

Mission: Impossible

Nintendo 64

Mission: Impossible

PlayStation

Mission: Impossible

Game Boy Color

Mission: Impossible

GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox

Operation Surma

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Mission:_Impossible_(NES)&oldid=1622589 "

Categories :

Games developed by Konami

Games published by Ultra Games

Games published by Palcom Software

NES games

Games released in 1990

Games released in September

Games with hidden development-related text

Games with regional differences

To do

Mission: Impossible series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden development-related text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Konami

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Konami  >  Games published by Palcom Software

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Konami  >  Games published by Ultra Games

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1990

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in September

Games  >  Games by series  >  Mission: Impossible series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 30 June 2024, at 01:08.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers