Conquest of the Crystal Palace - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Conquest of the Crystal Palace

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Conquest of the Crystal Palace

Also known as : Matendouji (JP)  Developer :

Quest

Publishers :

Quest

(JP),

Asmik

(US)  Platform :

NES

Released in JP : August 24,&#160;1990  Released in US : November 1990

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  debugging material .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a Data Crystal page

Conquest of the Crystal Palace

is a rather obscure NES gem that nobody mentions. This is one of the rare games with a mechanic that allows the sub-character to help you, much like Little Red Riding Hood, but a little better.

Contents

1

Unused Graphics

2

Debug Mode

3

Sound Test

4

Regional Differences

4.1

Title Screen

4.2

Introduction

4.3

Powerups

4.4

Speech Bubble

4.5

Shop

4.6

Enemies

4.7

Stage 3

4.8

Ending

Unused Graphics

To do:  Both versions have a large amount of unused graphics, mostly from the title screen and Kim's shop.

Debug Mode

At the title screen, hold  B  +  Select  for a short time, release the buttons and after a while press  A  +  Select  a couple of times (not holding it), until a sound will confirm correct code entry. Normally, you can trigger this cheat by simply pressing  A  +  Select  once, but the program skips the code test every 8 frames, so you can just miss it, if pressed exactly at that time. Pressing  A  +  Select  a couple more times disables this cheat. When playing the game, hold  Select  and press one of the following button combinations to activate the corresponding cheat function.

Right  - Temporary invulnerability.

Left  - Extra gold.

Up  - Jumping Shoes.

Down  - Full life.

Up + Right  - Extra lives (up to 99).

Down + Left  - Power-up weapon.

Up + Left  - Moon Mirror.

Down + Right  - Zap energy.

Sound Test

Japan

US

At the title screen, hold  A  +  B  +  Select  for the Sound Test to appear. Press  Up  /  Down  to switch between music and sound, but since there is no cursor, the only way to know which one is highlighted is to press  Left  /  Right  to change the numbers.

The Sound Test menu was moved down in the US version to make room for the title logo. While the Japanese has plenty of room for the menu, the US version overlays it on top of the copyright information which includes covering the bottom half of Asmik's mascot character.

(Source: GameFAQs (Dallas))

Regional Differences

Conquest of the Crystal Palace  actually retains quite a bit of Japanese kanji, adding to the overall far eastern flavor of the game. A few things were changed, however. Most of the characters were renamed; Tendou became Farron, Dodonpa became Zap, Rinka became Kim, the Moon Princess became the Crystal Princess and King Kaimei became King Zaras. Enemies also seem to take fewer hits to defeat.

Title Screen

Japan

US

In addition to the usual title change, the US versions adds a pair of mountains and the Asmik mascot as well as TM symbols. The Credit counter was removed, the High Score was pushed to the very top, and "Licensed by Nintendo of America, Inc" was added. The Japanese version has a different font, and much less text overall. There's also some cutesy headshots of the main cast.

It is interesting to note that the character 魔 "ma" is not used, but rather a truncated version containing the semantic radical 广 and the phonetic radical マ, with マ being pronounced "ma". This is unusual since 魔 does not have a simplified form, and the character is what are known as  ryakuji . This also appears on the walls of Stage 5, although Stage 1 uses the full character in its name (魔天山). For comparison, this is like how English speakers might use "Thru" instead of "Through". Both are pronounced the same and have the same meaning, but the former is not considered a proper word. The subtitle まてんどうじ is simply MatenDouji ("Demon-Heaven Child" or "Magic Boy" etc.) written in hiragana.

Introduction

In the Japanese version's introduction, three shooting stars are seen falling from the sky. In the US version, only one falls.

Powerups

Japan

US

Items dropped by enemies in the Japanese version are simple text-based powerups containing kanji. These were changed to more traditional graphic-based powerups overseas. This is about the only instance where the use of kanji was removed, as all stage names, shop items, and HUD elements retain their original appearance. These can still be found as leftovers in the US game, mostly in areas where items aren't usually dropped (like when fighting bosses). The palette for the last three items were swapped.

Speech Bubble

JP

US

Kim's speech bubble was changed from こっち ("Over here" or "This way") to simply "Hi!". The bubble itself was also redrawn.

Shop

Japan

US

The shop menu's text was changed to simple English. Next (次) and Previous (前) were replaced with arrows, and a cross was placed between them.

Japan

US

As noted above, Rinka (鈴風) was changed to Kim.

Enemies

Japan

US

This creepy-crawly from Stage 1 was changed into a bug-eyed slug monster.

Japan

US

This baby-like ghost from Stage 3 (see below) was changed into what could very well be a facehugger from  Alien .

Stage 3

Japan

US

Stage 3, the "Realm of Hungry Ghosts" (餓鬼界) was given a complete overhaul, changing the baby heads into a writhing biomass. Note that the original version bears a striking resemblance to  The Scream  by Edvard Munch. Take your pick as to which version is creepier...

Japan

US

This floating platform from Stage 3 also had its faces removed.

Ending

Japan

US

"1990 Quest" was changed to "1990 Asmik Corp. of America". "All Right Reserved" was changed to "All Rights Reserved". Farron was given a haircut in the US version.

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Conquest_of_the_Crystal_Palace&oldid=1937614 "

Categories :

Games developed by Quest

Games published by Quest

Games published by Asmik

NES games

Games released in 1990

Games released in August

Games released on August 24

Games with unused graphics

Games with debugging functions

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Square Enix  >  Games developed by Square  >  Games developed by Quest

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Asmik Ace Entertainment  >  Games published by Asmik

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Square Enix  >  Games published by Square  >  Games published by Quest

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1990

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in August

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in August  >  Games released on August 24

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 8 October 2025, at 17:31.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers