Zombies Ate My Neighbors (SNES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Zombies Ate My Neighbors (SNES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Zombies Ate My Neighbors

Also known as : Zombies (EU/AU)  Developer :

LucasArts

Publisher :

Konami

Platform :

SNES

Released in US : July 19,&#160;1993  Released in EU : January 27,&#160;1994

This game has  hidden developer credits .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused items .

This game has  unused music .

This game has  unused sounds .

This game has  unused text .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a Data Crystal page

To do:

Document the European "Monsters" prototype.

Document changes in the Virtual Console and Limited Run Games releases.

Zombies Ate My Neighbors

is a quirky, off-beat top-down action game featuring weird weapons, laughably cliche monsters, and some really brutal level design.

Contents

1

Development Credits

1.1

Unused/Removed Animations

2

Unused & Dummied Out Items

2.1

Banana

2.2

Grey Potion

2.3

Machine

2.4

Paint Can

2.5

Yellow Potion

3

Unused Level Palette

4

Unused Level Bonus

5

Unused Music

6

Unused Sound Effects

6.1

Sound 01

6.2

Sound 0C

6.3

Sound 1C

6.4

Unknown Sound

7

Regional Differences

7.1

Title Screen

7.2

Chainsaw Maniac

7.3

Game Over

7.4

High Score Screen

Development Credits

Located at

0x88007

is some copyright text crediting the sound driver to David Warhol.

AUDIO DRIVER (C) 1992 DAVID WARHOL ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

Unused/Removed Animations

To do:  Put these into a proper prototype page.

Looking further into the  Monsters  prototype, there seems to be alternate versions of Zeke and Julie's death animations, showing them falling forwards as opposed to backwards.

Julie's death sprite can be seen  here  at 3:10.

Proto

Final

Proto

Final

Unused & Dummied Out Items

Several items and one weapon are unused, but unfortunately most of them have no function.

Banana

Game Genie code:

BBF2-FE88

The banana is functionally identical to the popsicle weapon, and uses the same graphics. In the final version, only the HUD icon (left) still remains, but a sprite-based "pick-up" version (right) exists in the prototype. Picking up the "banana" only gives the player 1 ammo, having any other throwable items next in the slot will cause the banana to copy that projectile if the button was held, pressing the fire button quickly will result in throwing a popsicle instead.

However, graphics for the banana still exist in the ROM. These graphics are used for the banana in the prototype; the popsicle uses the banana graphics too. In the prototype, the banana is functionally identical to the tomato.

Grey Potion

Game Genie code:

BBFF-9288

This grey potion is functionally identical to the mystery potion already used in the game.

Machine

Game Genie code:

BBF4-9A88

This odd machine can't be used at all, and has no apparent function other than taking up inventory space. The graphic does, however, resemble the in-game radar, and perhaps at one point in development the radar was only accessible by using this item in particular.

Paint Can

While this is technically used, it's never visible through normal play. This graphic is used for the flamethrower weapon pickup, which is hidden inside of a wall that conceals the player. The original purpose of this graphic may have been different, however, as it's also found in the prototype, which has no flamethrower.

A HUD icon for the paint can also exists in the prototype (above, right), but doesn't seem to correspond to any item you can add to your inventory.

Yellow Potion

Game Genie code:

BBFF-9378

This item has no function -- it cannot be used.

Unused Level Palette

This snowy winter version of the standard neighborhood palette is never used. Change address

F9271

from

8E

to

91

to apply this palette to the first level, Zombie Panic.

Unused Level Bonus

This text appears in the ROM at address

14CC5  :

MONSTER FROZEN

BONUS

While partially coded in, this bonus was never finished. It would grant 1000 points when a certain number of Blob monsters are destroyed. The Blob monsters can only be destroyed with cold weapons.

Unused Music

Zombies Ate My Neighbors contains one unused music track. Change ROM address

F9292

from

06

to

0A

to alter the music in Zombie Panic to this track.

This piece  is  used in the prototype "Monsters" ROM, where it plays in an early version of The Son of Dr. Tongue.

Unused Sound Effects

To hear these sound effects in-game, change ROM address

54C3

from 0D to the appropriate value.

Sound 01

A very strange sound, and the first sound by ID.

Sound 0C

This sound is used in the prototype as the menu selection noise. It goes unused in the final version.

Sound 1C

This was almost certainly meant to be used for the flying saucer, but in the final version the flying saucer is silent. Thankfully.

(This next sound is unknown for where it is in address, however it was found while dumping sound effects)

Unknown Sound

It seems to sound like an old lady, maybe used for the teacher neighbor.
-edit this is not for any neighbor, apparently it's used for the giant baby when
it shoots it's bottle at you, it also has in-game echoing to it as well.

Regional Differences

Title Screen

North America

Europe

The "ate my neighbors" part of the title screen was chopped off, resulting in a noticeably stretched logo. According to the game's designer, Michael Ebert, this was due to the European publisher wanting a simpler name for the game.

(Source:  Hardcore Gaming 101 )

Chainsaw Maniac

North America

Europe

The Chainsaw Maniac enemy was redesigned into an equally insane  Canadian  lumberjack in the European version. Surprisingly, it made the transition rather well, behaving identically in both versions. Some related sound effects and text (such as stage names and a bonus related to it) were modified accordingly. (e.g. the "Chainsaw Begone Bonus" became "Axeman Begone Bonus".) This was done to prevent comparisons with Leatherface from  The Texas Chain Saw Massacre , which was banned in England, West Germany, and other European countries.

(Source:  Hardcore Gaming 101 )

North America

Europe

The Maniac's graphics on the Player Select and High Score screen were also updated to reflect their redesign.

Game Over

North America

Europe

The Game Over screen is colored differently between versions: in the American version, the overlay is a purple color, while the European version uses a green color. This may have been done simply to make the letters stand out, as purple is not a terribly offensive color.

High Score Screen

North America

Europe

The European High Score screen has a rather lazy orange border for some reason.

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Zombies Ate My Neighbors

series

SNES

Zombies Ate My Neighbors &#160;&#8226;

Ghoul Patrol

Genesis

Zombies Ate My Neighbors

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Zombies_Ate_My_Neighbors_(SNES)&oldid=2029183 "

Categories :

Games developed by LucasArts

Games published by Konami

SNES games

Games released in 1993

Games released in July

Games released on July 19

Games with hidden developer credits

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused items

Games with unused music

Games with unused sounds

Games with unused text

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Zombies Ate My Neighbors series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden developer credits

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused items

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused music

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused sounds

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by LucasArts

Games  >  Games by platform  >  SNES games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Konami

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1993

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in July

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in July  >  Games released on July 19

Games  >  Games by series  >  Zombies Ate My Neighbors series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 9 February 2026, at 00:15.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers