Prince of Persia (SNES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Prince of Persia (SNES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Prince of Persia

Developer :

Arsys Software

Publishers :

Masaya

(JP),

Konami

(US/EU)  Platform :

SNES

Released in JP : July 3,&#160;1992  Released in US : November 1992  Released in EU : April 22,&#160;1993

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a prerelease article

To do:  There are a lot of unused graphics, sound effects, and a music track. Also, there are prerelease screenshots from Famitsu and other magazines showcasing early graphics/level design plus some Prince deaths with blood before being censored for the final release across all regions.

Oh dear, I do believe I have the vapors.

This page contains content that is not safe for work or other locations with the potential for personal embarrassment. Such as:

A rather grisly death by decapitation for the poor Prince.

An enhanced port/remake of Jordan Mechner's classic Apple II game.

Contents

1

Sub-Pages

2

Cheat Menu

3

Sound Test

4

Unused Graphics

4.1

Push Start Button

4.2

Prince Beheaded Death

4.3

Prince Impaled Death

5

Regional Differences

5.1

Boot Screen

5.2

Title Screen

5.3

Password Screen

5.4

Removed Torture Scenes

5.5

Level 19

5.6

Final Battle

Sub-Pages

Prerelease Info

Cheat Menu

Enter  SPECIAL  (JP) or  SPCCMD!  (US/EU) as a password, then hit OK, then cancel and start a new game. During gameplay, pause and press  B, Y, Up, Down, Left, Right, L, R . A sound will be heard if entered correctly. Then hold Start and press Select to open the cheat menu. It contains a level select, a sound test, and an option to give the Prince additional units of health.

Also, you can press  X  during gameplay to kill all enemies currently on-screen, or change any button at the option menu to a new command called "Kill".

Sound Test

The sound test is also directly accessible (in all regions) by holding  Start  and pressing  Select  during gameplay (this will only work if the cheat menu code is not enabled, however, in which case it will instead open that).

Unused Graphics

Push Start Button

A font used mainly for the intro, ending and menus, with some unused tiles, among them the ‘‘Push Start Button’’ message.

Prince Beheaded Death

The following content is

and has been hidden by default. Click to reveal content:&#160;

A complete unused animation that shows the Prince being beheaded, complete with animated blood.

Four frames of it can be seen in the Japanese version by doing the game end glitch on the first screen of the first level: Head to the right and start climb down the ledge. Press Select to open the menu on the frame shown in the first screenshot below (just before the next screen transition), and hit "Game End". If done correctly, when you select game start, every character sprite will display incorrect graphics. Then, after beating Jaffar and entering the Princess room for the ending cutscene, the four beheaded frames will show during the animation of the Prince hugging the Princess.

Prince Impaled Death

An unused animation of the Prince getting impaled, with blood visible.

However, 3 frames of this animation (plus what it seems like a bloody turban sprite) can be seen on Level 15, if a guard is standing on a teleporter tile to the left of the Prince and the player tries to go through said teleporter. The Prince will briefly display the impaled frames and the turban before the guard hits the Prince; the game doesn't know what to do if you get hit while trying to go through the teleporter, resulting in a softlock where you will have to go to the pause menu and select game end.

The traps that would have led to these deaths were replaced with the wall log that only pushes the Prince back and taking 1 HP of damage, and the stars trap that instantly kill you, creating some new death sprites for the latter. On a prerelease image, these deaths are showcased but the article mentions that they were being removed for being too gruesome. It seems that this was done prior to the censoring of the blood, as these Prince death sprites are the only ones where blood can be seen.

Regional Differences

Boot Screen

Japan

International

The boot screen was changed to account for the different publishers.

Title Screen

Japan

International

The international title screen removes the Japanese text, moves up the gold filigree graphics, and completely changes the copyright information. The Japanese version allows you to skip the title screen, while the international version forces you to wait until the title screen is fully displayed.

Password Screen

Japan

International

The vowels were removed in the International version and replaced with a plus sign, an exclamation point, and additional dashes. This meant that the cheat menu password had to be changed.

Removed Torture Scenes

Two torture scenes were present in the Japanese version that were removed from the international versions. The scenes show the protagonist being beaten with a rod by a guard, and then dragged off to a cell by guards during the intro narrative. The third screenshot features narrative text stating "at the same time, the Princess was saddened as she was locked away in the top floor of the tower" (this information was simply moved to the next scene in the English localization). As a result of the complete removal of these scenes, the music loses sync with what is happening on-screen in the U.S. and European versions.

The scenes are still in both US and European versions' code, but merely skipped over.

Level 19

Japan

International

The pentagrams on the doors were replaced by different decorative patterns.

Japan

International

The pentagram on the wall in the throne room received a similar treatment.

Final Battle

Japan

International

The pentagram on the ground where you fight Jaffar was removed.

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Prince of Persia

series

Apple II

Prince of Persia

NES

Prince of Persia

SNES

Prince of Persia &#160;&#8226;

Prince of Persia 2: The Shadow and the Flame

Mac OS Classic

Prince of Persia 2: The Shadow and the Flame

Game Boy Color  Prince of Persia ( Japanese Prototype )

GameCube

Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time

PlayStation Portable

Prince of Persia: Revelations &#160;&#8226;

Prince of Persia: Rival Swords

Windows

Prince of Persia: Warrior Within &#160;&#8226;

Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones

Mac OS X

Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Prince_of_Persia_(SNES)&oldid=2000565 "

Categories :

Games developed by Arsys Software

Games published by Masaya

Games published by Konami

SNES games

Games released in 1992

Games released in July

Games released on July 3

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with hidden level selects

Games with regional differences

To do

NSFW articles

Prince of Persia series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  NSFW articles

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Cyberhead  >  Games developed by Arsys Software

Games  >  Games by platform  >  SNES games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Extreme

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Konami

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by NCS  >  Games published by Masaya

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1992

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in July

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in July  >  Games released on July 3

Games  >  Games by series  >  Prince of Persia series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 26 December 2025, at 06:01.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers