Rival Turf! - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Rival Turf!

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

Rival Turf

Also known as : Rushing Beat (JP)  Developer :

Jaleco

Publisher :

Jaleco

Platform :

SNES

Released in JP : March 27,&#160;1992  Released in US : April 1992  Released in EU :  1992

This game has  hidden development-related text .

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has a Data Crystal page

I'M BADDDD!! No wait, wrong game. "Look out, street scum! Here come the Brawl Brothers! The roughest, toughest street-fighting game ever!" -Actual box quote.

Contents

1

Hidden Text

2

Hidden Graphics

3

Character Name Configuration

4

Secret Warps

5

Crash Handler

6

Regional Differences

6.1

Title Screen

6.2

Intro

6.3

Option Screen

6.4

Name Changes

6.5

Groin Kick

6.6

Death Icon

6.7

Ending

6.8

Credits

6.9

Miscellaneous

Hidden Text

KATOREIKO!

A RAM initialization test string, located at

0x1BF7  . Possibly a reference to former J-Drama actress and gravure idol  Kato Reiko .

Hidden Graphics

This message is located at

0xCBA00  , between some enemy character graphics, and is present in all releases of the game. Hasegawa is listed in the game credits as "Graphic Designer".

Character Name Configuration

There's a hidden debug mode which allows you to rename all of the characters in the game. To do this, defeat at least five enemies and then get a game over. At the high score screen, enter your name as  CHRCONF  and you'll be taken to the character name configuration screen.

Secret Warps

Four secret warp points are programmed into the game, although only two of them are normally accessible, likely due to programmer error. The conditions for activating most of them are fairly complex. Upon activating a warp point, you are sent to the "warp room," in which you must destroy a strange statue before time runs out. If you succeed in destroying the statue, you are warped to the next area of the stage you were on; if you fail, you are sent back to the beginning of the stage instead.

Stage One  This one is normally inaccessible due to an incorrect pointer, but it can be restored by changing ROM address

0x2A07

to

2F  . Near the beginning of the first area, walk to the part of the fence the thug breaks through and press  Up  to warp to the second area.

Stage Four You must have exactly 30 kills to activate this one. At the beginning of the second area, walk into the first doorway to warp to the third area.

Stage Five You must have exactly 66 kills to activate this one. Near the end of the second area, position yourself in the center of the lower stairway, then jump straight upwards while pressing  Up  to warp to the third area.

Stage Six This one is normally inaccessible due to the fact that it is placed slightly too high for your character to reach, but it can be accessed by changing ROM address

0x2B15

to

00  . You must have exactly 4 kills to activate it. At the beginning of the second area, position yourself in the center of the first doorway, then jump and kick straight upwards while pressing  Up  to warp to the third area.

Crash Handler

If a BRK opcode is encountered during gameplay (generally as a result of a program crash), the game immediately sends you to the warp room described above as a means of recovering from the crash. All CPU registers are purged and the stack is reset, though all other data (kill count, continues, lives, etc.) is retained. When the room is accessed in this manner, destroying the statue will always send you to the third area of the stage you were on.

This type of "user-friendly" crash handler is exceedingly rare, especially on the SNES, since the 65816 CPU doesn't have much in the way of exception handling. A similar type of crash handler can be found in the Genesis version of

Sonic 3D Blast  .

Regional Differences

Title Screen

The game was renamed to "Rival Turf" outside of Japan, and replaced the Jaleco logo on the title screen with "Licensed by Nintendo".

Japan

US/Europe

Intro

The Japanese version contains an introduction screen which was completely removed in the western version. And not only that, but the story was changed completely. In the Japanese version you're actually rescuing your sister, who doesn't even appear in the western release.

Option Screen

The Japanese version options screen lets you pick the difficulty, number of lives and continues, all of this was taken out of Rival Turf. Rival Turf also lets you mess around with the L and R button settings, whilst Rushing Beat doesn't.

Japan

US/Europe

Name Changes

The names of the main characters were changed from Rick Norton and Douglas Bild to Jack Flak and Oozie Nelson in the US and European releases. Douglas Bild also had a slight makeover.

Japan

US/Europe

Most enemies also had their names changed:

Japan

US/Europe

KAMIKAZE RIDE SINGH KATO POE ARNOLD GIGANTE SLICK BOB BUTCHY BIGEL SHO RYU T.OMARI CAPTAIN HONKY KARN KINTARK NORTON BILD

BULLET CASE GENIE GORO KATO ARNOLD GIGANTE SKINNY REGGIE BUTCH LOUIE WARRIOR DINGO SLASHER CAPTAIN SLEDGE ICEMAN BIG AL FLAK NELSON

Groin Kick

In the Japanese version, when Douglas Bild grabs an enemy, he can kick them in the groin, which even produces a funny "ding" sound. This makes the enemy wince in pain while grabbing their groin. In the Western release, the enemy just does the regular animation when getting hit and the sound effect was altered.

Japan

US/Europe

(Source:  Censored Gaming )

Death Icon

When you die in the Japanese version, your character's icon flashes with an image of a kanji. In the western version, the kanji was replaced with an X.

Japan

US/Europe

Ending

The ending in the Japanese version much a lot longer. After rescuing your sister, she reveals that the last boss is their father.

Translation:

“Maria! What on earth… why…?”

“Big brother, this person is…?”

Credits

The Japanese version also contains a credits scene. The US version of the game still has the staff list at

0xF609  . The list is unchanged from the Japanese release, and still calls the game "Rushing Beat". The list was removed from the European release.

Miscellaneous

In the Japanese version, there's music playing during the name entry screen. In the western version, it's silent. This is actually (track

0F  ) in its sound test, which was removed in the US and European versions.

The gameplay is noticeably more difficult because you can get hit while grabbing an enemy where the US version took this problem out.

When you pause the game in the European version, the screen darkens. This doesn't happen in the Japanese or US versions.

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Rushing Beat

series

SNES

Rival Turf! &#160;&#8226;

Brawl Brothers &#160;&#8226;

The Peace Keepers

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Rival_Turf!&oldid=2023409 "

Categories :

Games developed by Jaleco

Games published by Jaleco

SNES games

Games released in 1992

Games released in March

Games released on March 27

Games with hidden development-related text

Games with unused graphics

Games with regional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

Rushing Beat series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden development-related text

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Jaleco

Games  >  Games by platform  >  SNES games

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by City Connection  >  Games published by Jaleco

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1992

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in March

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in March  >  Games released on March 27

Games  >  Games by series  >  Rushing Beat series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 27 January 2026, at 23:51.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers