Evander Holyfield's Real Deal Boxing - Wikipedia

Jump to content

Main menu

Main menu

move to sidebar

hide

Navigation

Main page

Contents

Current events

Random article

About Wikipedia

Contact us

Contribute

Help

Learn to edit

Community portal

Recent changes

Upload file

Special pages

Search

Search

Appearance

Donate

Create account

Log in

Personal tools

Donate

Create account

Log in

Contents

move to sidebar

hide

(Top)

1

Overview

2

Gameplay

Toggle Gameplay subsection

2.1

Career mode

2.2

Other boxers

3

Presentation

4

Reception

5

See also

6

References

7

External links

Toggle the table of contents

Evander Holyfield's Real Deal Boxing

5 languages

العربية

مصرى

Français

Ladin

Svenska

Edit links

Article

Talk

English

Read

Edit

View history

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar

hide

Actions

Read

Edit

View history

General

What links here

Related changes

Upload file

Permanent link

Page information

Cite this page

Get shortened URL

Download QR code

Print/export

Download as PDF

Printable version

In other projects

Wikidata item

Appearance

move to sidebar

hide

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

1992 video game

1992 video game

Evander Holyfield's "Real Deal" True Boxing

Packaging for the European Mega Drive version.

Developers

Acme Interactive

(GEN)

Novotrade International

(GG)

Publisher

Sega

Platforms

Mega Drive/Genesis ,  Game Gear

Release

NA :  August 1992

&#91; 2 &#93;

EU :  September 24, 1992

&#91; 1 &#93;

JP :  October 30, 1992

&#91; 3 &#93;

Genre

Traditional boxing

simulation

Modes

Single-player

multiplayer

Evander Holyfield's "Real Deal" Boxing

is a  boxing  video game that was developed by  Acme Interactive  and published by  Sega  in 1992, released for the  Mega Drive/Genesis  and  Game Gear  consoles. It was followed by a sequel in 1993,

Greatest Heavyweights  , which featured a number of improvements.

Overview

[

edit

]

The game features  Evander Holyfield , and over 28 imaginary fighters. It uses 2D sprites seen from a side-on view, combined with a top-down map of the ring, to allow boxers to move 360 degrees about the ring. The cartridge utilises battery-backed RAM to save a player's progress.

Gameplay

[

edit

]

During a fight, each boxer has an  energy  meter that decreases whenever they are hit. When the energy meter reaches zero, that player's boxer will suffer a  knockdown . The meter is not affected by how much physical activity the boxer engages in (apart from getting punched). In addition, there is a meter for the boxer's head and body, which shows how much damage each of these areas has sustained. When the head or body meters reach zero, that boxer will take much more damage when hit in that area. Regardless of how much damage a boxer receives, punches reduce a fighter's energy bar by a consistent amount (unlike in many boxing games, where punches sometimes vary by how likely they are to knock a boxer down, causing serious damage in the process).

If a boxer has received large amount of damage to either their head or their body, and they continue to be punched in that area, the fight will soon end in a  TKO . Large amounts of punishment to the head will also result in visible cuts. A TKO will also result if a boxer is knocked down three times. However, unlike in real-life boxing matches, a boxer can be pummelled for an entire fight without throwing one punch in return, but unless they are knocked down three times, or suffer extreme damage to either their head or body, the fight will be allowed to continue. Similarly, fight judges will not score a round as 10-8 unless a fighter is knocked down. The only exception to this is if the scoring of a round as 10-9 would result in a draw. In such an instance, the round will be scored 10–8 to the fighter who won the round. This system of scoring is unrealistic, because in real boxing matches, a round is sometimes scored 10-8 if one boxer has been badly pummelled. It is also possible for boxers to pause and hurl insults during a fight, such as "come on and fight you wimp!".

Career mode

[

edit

]

In career mode, the player fights their way through the 28 selectable imaginary boxers in the game, with the last of these being against Holyfeld himself, for the  World Heavyweight Title . Following the attainment of the title, the player then fights in a number of 'challenge' matches, against high-ranked contenders. Some of these fights include imaginary fighters who were previously unseen in the rankings. After a certain number of fights (usually 20-25) the player's boxer will weaken and it will be increasingly more difficult to keep his attributes at a high level. Once the career of the player's boxer reaches 40 fights, he will have to retire. This prevents gamers from repeatedly fighting the same low-ranked, low-quality boxers in order to receive more training (and thus better attributes, making the game easier) at an early stage of their career. If the player beats Holyfield he will also decline and fall down the rankings until he eventually retires as well. Only resetting the internal memory of the game can bring Holyfield back to his optimum form.

In career mode, the player must create their own boxer; they cannot use any of the game's pre-created boxers. Options to edit are: name, body size,  handedness ,  skin  colour and  short  colour - with selectable colours including: red, green, gold, purple, dark blue, cyan and yellow. An unlockable boxer named "The Beast" (unlocked by entering that as his name) wears silver. Each boxer in the game also has four attributes: power, speed, stamina and defense. These attributes all vary widely between the 30 boxers featured in the game (Evander Holyfield has the maximum rating on all of them). During career mode, all of the attributes can be increased by selecting various training activities, such as  free weights  sessions or a  protein  diet. Many of these portray somewhat unusual ways for a fighter to attempt to improve their boxing ability; for example, taking  Karate  lessons, paying a visit to a  health club , or obtaining an  iron

gum shield .

In exhibition mode, the player can choose to pit any boxer against any other, with the option to make each fighter controlled by either a player or the console.

The game gradually replaces aging or low-ranked boxers (including Holyfield) with new ones as Career Mode progresses.

Other boxers

[

edit

]

The 28 fictional boxers are (at factory default settings):

Rank

Name

Nation

Champ

Evander Holyfield

2

Alan Beast

3

Razor Robbins

4

Ice Ian

5

Rob Hemphill

6

Hot Rod Nils

7

Hunk Hughes

8

Joe Steinman

9

Michael Lamb

10

Jim Kahn

11

Jeff Godfrey

12

B.J Higgins

13

Dane King

14

Dave Stevis

15

Slo Mo Jones

16

Big Bob Jacob

17

J.D Leforge

18

Wildman West

19

Red Mclane

20

Carl Coolman

21

Jim Jo Bone

22

E.Z Ray

23

Kent Goad

24

Pat Grinder

25

Chuck Wayne

26

Dynamite Don

27

Dick Steptoe

28

Mick Llonigan

Presentation

[

edit

]

The visuals of a fight are made up of 2D sprite-based boxers, and a simple 3D rendering of the ring. A small, overhead map of the ring, featuring both fighters' positions, is also visible during fights. Thus, using this as a navigation aide, it is possible to move boxers 360 degrees around the ring. However, the boxers' lateral movement appears somewhat unusual, due to their sprites being drawn from one side-on point of view.

Digitized

speech  is used to:

Declare a  knockout  has taken place ("Knockout!").

Declare a fight is to be stopped due to medical concerns ("Stop the fight!").

To break up fighters who are clinching ("Break").

To tell when to start the fight ("Box").

It is also used for the taunts that computer-controlled boxers will sometimes say during a fight. There are also  grunts  and groans that emphasize the impact of some punches. There are also audible crowd effects; if a boxer lands a damaging punch, the crowd will  cheer  in approval, whereas if there is a lack of action, they will make evident their disapproval with  boos  and jeers. As a boxer's rank advances, more spectators appear in the crowd.

Reception

[

edit

]

Mean Machines

(UK) awarded the Mega Drive version 52%, saying: "Some good ideas and some impressive graphics ruined by awful gameplay and in-game logic."

&#91; 4 &#93;

Glenn Rubenstein of

Wizard

magazine gave the Genesis version a score of A− praising the graphics, the realistic gameplay and the feature to customize your boxer. The only criticism he had was some of the characters movements are too choppy concluding: "This game is a must have for boxing fans of all ages and anyone who likes sports games."

&#91; 5 &#93;

The four reviewers of  Mega Play  gave the Genesis version positive reviews praising the graphics, sound effects, animation, and the ability to customize characters. One reviewer felt the gameplay was robotic and lacks variety in punching and techniques.

&#91; 6 &#93;

See also

[

edit

]

Martial arts portal

Video games portal

References

[

edit

]

^

"Official Sega Product Coming Your Way This Month"

(PDF) .  Computer Trade Weekly . No.&#160;406. Opportunity Publishing. 28 September 1992. p.&#160;6 . Retrieved  25 February  2025 .

^

"Genesis Pro Review: Evander Holyfield's "Real Deal" Boxing" .

GamePro  . No.&#160;36.  IDG . July 1992. p.&#160;38.

^

"Software List (Sega Release)" .  Sega Hardware Encyclopedia  (in Japanese).  Sega Corporation  . Retrieved  May 15,  2023 .

^

"Mega Drive Review – Evander Holyfield's Real Deal Boxing" .  Mean Machines . No.&#160;23.  EMAP . August 1992. pp.&#160; 95– 96 . Retrieved  May 21,  2016 .

^

Rubenstein, Glenn (November 1992).  "At the Controls" .  Wizard  (15):  25– 28 . Retrieved  April 22,  2022 .

^

"Mega Reviews" .  Mega Play  (11): 63. August 1992.

External links

[

edit

]

Game info

Archived  2007-09-30 at the  Wayback Machine  at  Rotten Tomatoes .

Detailed review

Archived  2016-03-27 at the  Wayback Machine  at  The Mean Machines Archive .

v

t

e

Evander Holyfield

Fights

Muhammad Qawi vs. Holyfield

Holyfield vs. Tillman

Holyfield vs. Parkey

Hoyfield vs. Ocasio

Holyfield vs. Muhammad Qawi II

Holyfield vs. De León

Holyfield vs. Tillis

Holyfield vs. Thomas

Dokes vs. Holyfield

Holyfield vs. Rodrigues

Holyfield vs. Stewart

Holyfield vs. McDonagh

Douglas vs. Holyfield

Holyfield vs. Foreman

Holyfield vs. Cooper

Holyfield vs. Holmes

Holyfield vs. Bowe

Holyfield vs. Stewart II

Bowe vs. Holyfield II

Holyfield vs. Moorer

Holyfield vs. Mercer

Bowe vs. Holyfield III

Holyfield vs. Czyz

Tyson vs. Holyfield

Holyfield vs. Tyson II

Holyfield vs. Moorer II

Holyfield vs. Bean

Holyfield vs. Lewis

Holyfield vs. Lewis II

Holyfield vs. Ruiz

Holyfield vs. Ruiz II

Ruiz vs. Holyfield III

Holyfield vs. Rahman

Byrd vs. Holyfield

Holyfield vs. Toney

Holyfield vs. Donald

Ibragimov vs. Holyfield

Valuev vs. Holyfield

Holyfield vs. Belfort

Team

Shelly Finkel

Don King

George Benton

Lou Duva

Don Turner

Emanuel Steward

Ronnie Shields

Other

Holyfield's Real Deal Records

Evander Holyfield's Real Deal Boxing

" Raging Bully "

Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Evander_Holyfield%27s_Real_Deal_Boxing&oldid=1339136312 "

Categories :

1992 video games

Black people in art

Boxing video games

Cultural depictions of American people

Cultural depictions of boxers

Game Gear games

Malibu Interactive games

Multiplayer and single-player video games

Sega Genesis games

Sports video games with career mode

Video games based on real people

Video games developed in the United States

Hidden categories:

CS1 Japanese-language sources (ja)

Articles with short description

Short description matches Wikidata

Articles using Infobox video game using locally defined parameters

Articles using Wikidata infoboxes with locally defined images

Webarchive template wayback links

This page was last edited on 19 February 2026, at 02:59 &#160;(UTC) .

Text is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the  Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.

Privacy policy

About Wikipedia

Disclaimers

Contact Wikipedia

Legal & safety contacts

Code of Conduct

Developers

Statistics

Cookie statement

Mobile view

Search

Search

Toggle the table of contents

Evander Holyfield's Real Deal Boxing

5 languages

Add topic