Zanac (NES) - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

Zanac (NES)

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

This page contains

changes

which are not marked for translation.

Other languages:

English &#160;• ‎ 한국어

Zanac

Also known as : Zanac A.I. (JP/title screen)  Developer :

Compile

Publishers :

Pony Canyon

(JP),

FCI

(US)  Platforms :

Famicom Disk System  ,

NES

Released in JP : November 28,&#160;1986 (FDS)  Released in US : October 1987

This game has  unused areas .

This game has  debugging material .

This game has a  hidden sound test .

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has  regional differences .

This game has  revisional differences .

This game has a notes page

This game has a Data Crystal page

Zanac

is arguably one of the greatest vertically-scrolling shooters ever to grace the NES, although it originated on the MSX. In any case, it's amazing.

Contents

1

Sub-Page

2

Debug Mode

3

Area 0

4

Sound Test

5

Area Select

6

Alternative Ship

7

Hidden Message

8

Regional Differences

8.1

Title Screen

8.2

Extra Menu

8.3

Music

8.4

Game Play

8.5

Enemy

8.6

Mini-Boss Palettes

8.7

Misc.

9

Revision Differences

Sub-Page

Notes

Debug Mode

The game contains a debug mode that allows you to skip levels, give yourself any weapon, or maximize your lives. The method of activating it is a real doozy: it requires the US cart, a Famicom, and a Family BASIC Keyboard!

Power on the console.

Soft reset the game 9 times.

Type  @COMPILE  and press  Return . You should hear the 1-up jingle play.

Start the game as usual.

You should now have the full set of debugging features at your command. All of them are activated while the game is paused. The known functions are as follows:

Controller 1:

SELECT  - Select weapon.

Family BASIC Keyboard:

CLR  - 255 lives.

INS  - Warp to next area.

DEL  - Warp to previous area. Notably, this will take you to Area 12 if done in Area 1 despite the existence of  Area 0 .

Curiously, while the Keyboard-reading routine appears to have been lifted from the  FDS  BIOS, it is never referenced by the Japanese disk version. The rest of the debugging code may not have been implemented yet by the time of its release.

NOTE:  Some emulators have a bug that prevents this code from working properly. See the Notes page for more details.

Area 0

Use stage modifier

0091000

to access Area 0. Area 0 uses Area 12's music, loops endlessly, and is devoid of the numbered weapon powerups. It appears to be either a memory filler stage or possibly a test stage. It seems like it could have been used to test enemy patterns, in particular the game's AI system and the effects on it caused by shooting or not shooting the Sart enemies (seen in the screenshot to the left of the Zanac ship) that lower or raise the AI.

Area 0 became an unlockable bonus stage in the PlayStation remake on

Zanac X Zanac  .

(Source:  GameHacking )

Sound Test

As with

The Guardian Legend  , another game by Compile, hold  A + B  and press  Reset  to access the Sound Test. This feature is in the NES version only.

Alternatively, press  Start + Select + A + B  when "Game Over" appears.

Area Select

Press  Reset (×13) , then press  Start  to go in the main game menu. Press  Left  or  Right  to choose a level, then choose the "game start or continue" option and press  Start . To start at Area 11 or 12, hold  Up  on Controller 1 as well. Do the same if you want to continue the game after Area 10.

Alternative Ship

Standard

Alternate

In the main menu, press  A + B  to enter the game and change the appearance of the player's ship.

(Source:  StrategyWiki )

Hidden Message

Japan

US

In the ending scene, after the standard credits appears, the fairy will move to center of bottom area of screen. Wait some seconds (the time is shorter in US version) until the fairy moves to end of "Created by Compile", then press  A + B  on Controllers 1 and 2 to display "SEE YOU AGAIN IN GUARDIC".  Guardic  is another shooter by the same company for the MSX, released the same year as the FDS version of this game. While Compile released an NES game named  Guardic Gaiden  two years later (known overseas as  The Guardian Legend ), it has no relation to this message whatsoever.

In the Playstation version, the text becomes "SEE YOU AGAIN IN ZANAC NEO" instead, where the "ZANAC NEO" refers to  Zanac X Zanac  itself.

Regional Differences

To do:  Special weapon item differences, The most obvious of these are Areas 1 and 2.

Title Screen

Japan

US

Compile's name, the copyright symbol, and three of the periods are rendered in a new font that's also used in the game's new menu and ending screen. "Designed" is now misspelled "desinded". Pony Canyon's copyright and logo were moved up to make room for Nintendo of America's credit, that logo no longer appears with a "wipe" motion, and the year was pulled against the copyright symbol. The area number is one space further to the right when it's a single digit.

Extra Menu

The NES version added a screen to select "GAME START" and "CONTINUE". The FDS version requires holding  Select  while pressing  Start  to continue from the latest area reached.

Music

Japan

US

Area 1's music is one whole step lower in key, going from A to G. Area 3's version is affected the same way but still skips the introduction.

Japan

US

Area 4's music was raised two whole steps, from F to A, and the lead was given a rougher tone. It now debuts in Area 2.

The NES version also added additional music:

Area 6/9 (Sound Test 31)

Area 5/7/11 (Sound Test 32)

Alternate Area 10 (Sound Test 33)

Alternate Game Over (Sound Test 35)

The last two tracks are only accessed through a secret. The alternate Game Over music plays if  Select  is held during the start of a Game Over, while the alternate area music plays if  Select  is held while destroying a fortress in Area 10. This is just one of several button codes that only work in the cartridge version.

(Source:  StrategyWiki )

Game Play

In the FDS version, tile 1 special weapon does not have the strongest form of moving slowly counterclockwise.

Enemy

Japan

US

The Degid color scheme that appears from the bottom of the NES version is different from the FDS version.

Mini-Boss Palettes

In the NES version, the "Capital Ship" mini-bosses change color from blue to gold to pale yellow with red lines as their life is depleted. In the FDS version, those same mini-bosses remain blue throughout.

Misc.

Weapon Distro/Kyariu flashes colors differently between versions.

During the loading stage of the FDS version, the HUD is displayed immediately, and the loading time is slightly longer than in the NES version.

The FDS version has a different non-artistic font form than the NES version, and only appears in the ending screen.

The above cheat codes for the NES version do not work on the FDS version aside from the hidden message.

Revision Differences

Zanac would see a re-release on the Project EGG service. This re-release is based on the NES version.

NES

Project EGG

The copyright info was removed in the Project EGG version.

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

Zanac

series

NES

Zanac

MSX2

Zanac EX

PlayStation

Zanac X Zanac

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=Zanac_(NES)&oldid=1994577 "

Categories :

Games developed by Compile

Games published by Pony Canyon

Games published by FCI

Famicom Disk System games

NES games

Games released in 1986

Games released in November

Games released on November 28

Games with unused areas

Games with debugging functions

Games with hidden sound tests

Games with hidden level selects

Games with regional differences

Games with revisional differences

Pages with a Data Crystal link

To do

Zanac series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup  >  To do

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with debugging functions

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden sound tests

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with regional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with revisional differences

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused areas

Games  >  Games by content  >  Pages with a Data Crystal link

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by Compile

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Fuji Television  >  Games published by FCI

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Fuji Television  >  Games published by Pony Canyon

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1986

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in November

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in November  >  Games released on November 28

Games  >  Games by series  >  Zanac series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games  >  Famicom Disk System games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 17 December 2025, at 05:24.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers