G.I. Joe: The Atlantis Factor - The Cutting Room Floor

If you appreciate the work done within the wiki, please consider supporting The Cutting Room Floor on  Patreon . Thanks for all your support!

G.I. Joe: The Atlantis Factor

From The Cutting Room Floor

Jump to navigation

Jump to search

G.I. Joe: The Atlantis Factor

Developer :

KID

Publisher :

Capcom

Platform :

NES

Released in US : March 1992

This game has  unused graphics .

This game has  unused cinematics .

This game has  unused sounds .

This game has  unused text .

This game has a  hidden level select .

This game has a prototype article

G.I. Joe: The Atlantis Factor

was the second NES  G.I. Joe  game and a somewhat less linear affair than  its predecessor . Capcom took over publishing duties this time around, due to the retirement of Taxan from video games.

Hope you have some graph paper handy, because this game's password system is a  doozy!

Contents

1

Sub-Pages

2

Unused Graphics

2.1

Joes (Players)

2.2

COBRA (Enemies)

3

Sound Effects

3.1

Misc.

4

Unused Dialogue

5

Level Skip

6

Stage Select

Sub-Pages

Prototype Info

Unused Graphics

Joes (Players)

Unused sprites of General Hawk with a jetpack, with versions for every weapon!

The Atlantis Factor  takes character designs from the 1992 figure lineup, although the game's manual still references Hawk's Headset and Jetpack which his 1992 figure does not have.

Wet Suit has similar unused sprites, presumably able to swim in water at one point.

Unused sprites of Road Block found in Storm Shadow's and Snake Eyes' tiles. The former does not have any matching tiles in Road Block's set, while the latter is an early version of a final sprite.

COBRA (Enemies)

Only two minibosses bounce back from hand-to-hand attacks, though none use these sprites.

Two minibosses chase the player and occasionally kneel and fire a burst of three energy blasts. These blasts were apparently meant to have visible windup periods.

This version of the sitting gunner does not appear in any form in-game.

Both stages where you're attacked from the air use the first missile.

Another version of the enemy that flies across over the level, though does not appear in any area.

A pair of canopy graphics found near tiles for COBRA's Sea Ray and Mamba.

The Sea Ray and Mamba with their canopy sprites overlaid, never seen in-game.

A bomb or explosive canister of some kind. Stored with the Mamba/Sea Ray's sprites but drop shadow suggests indoor use!

A turret facing upwards from below. Meant to be used indoors.

A drone variant, unknown if it was another item the player could use or if it was meant to attack the player as an enemy.

Sound Effects

Three short sounds. Unknown what they were used for.

Use unknown, but a similar sound was used in  this game's predecessor  for planting a bomb.

A glitched version of Atlantis rising\sinking in the opening\ending of the game.

Possibly a cut sound from one of Cesspool's attacks, which involves leaping at the player and swiping at them with a sword.

A rapid series of chimes. Possibly meant to play when the player finds one of the secret statues.

Misc.

Placeholder graphics found in several areas of the ROM near enemies - appropriately, in the design of a cobra.

Unused Dialogue

DUKE
 I'VE BEEN WOUNDED AND
 I'M TOO WEAK TO MOVE.
 FIND SPIRIT AND
 BRING HIM HERE.
 HE SHOULD BE ON TOP

OF SNOWY MOUNTAIN.

This dialogue is never seen in-game, as the stage where you rescue Duke is inaccessible until you have Spirit. Even then, there is no way to revisit a stage without memory hacking.

Level Skip

Game Genie  code

PEEALLAA

will re-enable a level skip cheat. During the game, press  Left + Select  to instantly finish the current level, although this won't work in levels with more than one exit door.

Stage Select

Enable  Game Genie  code

PAUEAAAA  , start a New Game, and after the opening cutscenes you'll be presented with the debug stage select.

The first row of A-F takes you to the respective areas.

The next three rows of numbers correlate to the routes, each represented by a single digit.

The fifth row of A-F brings you to each zone's respective boss.

The sixth row of numbers takes you to the post-route cutscenes.

The seventh and final row of A-F takes you to the post-boss cutscenes, with F taking you to the game's ending.

You start out as General Hawk with no upgrades, but oddly enough you retain any upgrades (except health upgrades) if you beat a stage and select another. Beating any route, boss, or post-route cutscene will bring you back to the debug stage select screen. Beating any area will take you to the correlating boss fight, which will play the necessary cutscene before returning you to the debug stage select screen.

NOTE:  Any of the post-boss cutscenes A-E will bring you back to the character select screen once they're finished. If you attempt to continue as you normally would, the game will crash.

v

&#32; &#183; &#32;

t

&#32; &#183; &#32;

e

The

G.I. Joe

series

Atari 2600

G.I. Joe: Cobra Strike

NES

G.I. Joe &#160;&#8226;

G.I. Joe: The Atlantis Factor  ( Prototype )

Arcade

G.I. Joe

Nintendo DS

G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra

See also

Action Man

Retrieved from " https://tcrf.net/index.php?title=G.I._Joe:_The_Atlantis_Factor&oldid=1428021 "

Categories :

Games developed by KID

Games published by Capcom

NES games

Games released in 1992

Games released in March

Games with unused graphics

Games with unused cinematics

Games with unused sounds

Games with unused text

Games with hidden level selects

G.I. Joe series

Hidden categories:

Pages missing developer references

Pages missing publisher references

Pages missing date references

Cleanup

Cleanup

Cleanup

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with hidden level selects

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused cinematics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused graphics

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused sounds

Games  >  Games by content  >  Games with unused text

Games  >  Games by developer  >  Games developed by CyberFront  >  Games developed by KID

Games  >  Games by platform

Games  >  Games by publisher  >  Games published by Capcom

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in 1992

Games  >  Games by release date  >  Games released in March

Games  >  Games by series  >  G.I. Joe series

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing date references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing developer references

Hidden categories  >  Pages missing publisher references

The Cutting Room Floor  >  Unimportant Awards  >  NES games

Navigation menu

Personal tools

English

Create account

Log in

Namespaces

Page

Discussion

Variants

Views

Read

View source

View history

More

Search

Main

Main page

Recent changes

Random page

Rules & Editing Help

FAQ

To-do list

Community + Links

Discord

IRC Channel

Message Board

Bluesky

Patreon

Donate

Data Crystal

Related Sites

Games

By platform

By series

By content

By release date

By developer

By publisher

Featured articles

Tools

What links here

Related changes

Special pages

Printable version

Permanent link

Page information

This page was last edited on 4 June 2023, at 08:59.

Content is available under  Attribution 3.0 Unported  unless otherwise noted.

Privacy policy

About The Cutting Room Floor

Disclaimers