GameResources/NES/KirbysAdventure - TASVideos

TASVideos

Tool-assisted game movies

When human skills are just not enough

Home

Games

Movies

Movie Classes

Publications

Submissions

User Files

Forum

Chat

Articles

Article Index

Game Resources

Emulators

Staff

About

Dark

Light

Auto

Register

Log in

Game Resources

NES

Kirbys Adventure

This page documents information about

Kirby&#x27;s Adventure

. Many of the tricks demonstrated here are near impossible in real time and documented for the purposes of creating  Tool-assisted Speedruns .

Table of contents

Table with speed comparison of different power-ups

X Speed

Acceleration graphs

Tricks

Normal

UFO

Wheel

Jump

Fire Ball

Sword

Glitches

UFO glitch

Acute-angled ledge clip

"Hit while hitting" clip

Pit crouching clip

Slope clip

Lag reduction

With UFO

Luck manipulation

Table with speed comparison of different power-ups

X Speed

Power-up/Movement  Max speed  Average speed  Comment

Walking  332  -  -

Running  460  -  -

Dashing  677  15415/39 (395.256410)  Freezes in mid-air

Walking uphill  160/208  -  Depends on the slope

Running uphill  320/352  -  Depends on the slope

Walking downhill  400/480  -  Depends on the slope

Running downhill  608/704  -  Depends on the slope

UFO  640/512  -  512 for diagonal movement

Ball  460  -  -

Tornado  1024  47993/64 (749.890625)  -

Fireball  1024  28576/45 (635.022222)  Going opposite direction in the beginning of each time using the power-up

Wheel  1024  -  Going opposite direction in the beginning; X Speed depends on Y Speed

Hi-Jump  512  -  -

Acceleration graphs

close

Walking/Running

Dashing

Tornado

Fireball

Wheel

Tricks

Below are basic tricks of the different power-ups. The first four of the Normal also apply to all others, except UFO.

TODO: Add more tricks

Normal

Running  Releasing L/R then pressing again before speed drops to 0 sub/f Kirby will start running.

Sliding  Pressing down+A/B makes Kirby do a slide attack, it starts at 677 sub/f then decreases each frame until 0 sub/f is reached. When performed near an edge the speed will stop dropping once in mid-air.

1-frame jump  Unlike jumps where A is hold longer for one frame, this one doesn't cause a sparkle to appear when Kirby lands.

Jumping  Every jump will cause to stop movement for one frame when A is released.

Inhaling  Kirby can suck in enemies and some blocks. He can suck in multiple enemies at once, but not mulitple blocks or blocks and enemies.

Spitting  When Kirby has one enemy or a block in his mouth he can spit it out as a star. Multiple enemies will cause a more powerful double star.

Swallowing

Kirby can get power-ups from some enemies he inhaled. When he has two or more enemies with power-ups in his mouth a roulette will determine the power-up. Some enemies and blocks don't give power-ups.

UFO

Shooting  Kirby can attack using the A/B button, the attack will be different and more powerful the longer A/B is held, it goes from beam to laser to star to double star. Releasing A/B will stop movement for one frame.

Changing direction  Movement stops for one frame when direction is changed, except when charging an attack. It can also be used to exit rooms one frame faster.

Faster exiting from above  It is one frame faster to do ...D,L/R+U than ...L/R+D,U.

Wallhugging  On sections where it's needed to go, for example, right then up and then left a better position can be archieved by pressing U earlier before going up.

Ledge boosting  Kirby will boost upwards a bit when L/R is pressed near a permeable ledge.

Wheel

Avoid bumping into walls  Turning around before bumping into a wall while in mid-air will prevent stopping movement.

Jump

Abort jumping  By pressing A again the jump can be cancelled.

Jumping  It's faster than regualar running.

Fire Ball

Avoid going back at start  Normally Kirby will go back a bit before starting the attack, but when he has a wall behind him he wont do it.

Sword

Faster Swimming  Atacking while swimming will make the speed up to walking speed.

Glitches

UFO glitch

Pressing Select when getting hit causes the power-up status to be normal, but the UFO is acually not lost, even not at the level end.

Acute-angled ledge clip

TODO: optimize gif or make new one

It's possible to fly into certain legdes with proper positioning, there's no limitation due to power-ups, it works as Normal aswell.

"Hit while hitting" clip

TODO: optimize gif or make new one

TODO: explain

Pit crouching clip

TODO: Post gif

A power-up which doesn't change Kirby's appearance is needed to perform the glitch. Before running over a pit pressing down with the right position will cause Kirby to fly the other side of the pit.

Slope clip

TODO: Post gif

At the top of a slope block it's possible to clip through it by jumping for one frame with the right positioning.

Lag reduction

With UFO

Killing enemies  The best way to kill an enemy is to charge the laser shot of the UFO. Altougth shooting stops movement for one frame, it can reduce the amount of lag significantly. How much lag is reduced depends on the frame when charging and the frame the enemy disapeard from screen.  Killing an enemy on specific condictions can create more lag, than not killing it.

Prevent attacking enemies  Many enemies have a very laggy attacking animation. This can be avoided by luck manipulation or killing them.

Movement interupt  When releasing the D-pad and stopping movement for one frame it mostly only reduces one lag frame, which saves no time. But sometimes it can save two lag frames. Mostly because there are object on one side of the screen which despawn and new objects  won't create much or no lag.

Halfinterupt  Sometimes pressing up or down while going right or left can save lag frames. Unlike the movement interupt trick, this doesn't completely drops the movement, it only decreases it to two pixels/frame. It can even save time when only saving one lag frame, it depends on the position. When going upwards or downwards the speed drops by 1 pixel/frame.

Despawning enemies

When doing an edge boost on vertical levels enemies, which would appear at the right distance to Kirby, won't spawn.  The gif on the right shows a successful enemy despawn.

Delaying exits  This is only useful when there are enemies on screen cannot be killed (Gordos, Cannons).  Not useful: In a room with no enemies it appears that every second delayed frame there'll be one or no lag frame in the next room. Losing time happens every second frame. In rooms where enemies can be killed the same happens here, but it's needed to adjust input.

Luck manipulation

The RNG is executed everytime an new random number is needed. It often is needed to slow down for manipulating luck.

Landing and bumping into walls or ceilings  When non-UFO Kirby lands or bumps into a wall or a ceiling a new random sparkle will be drawn to screen, which causes the random number to advance. Due to jumping slowing down for a frame this method is rather restrictive.

Inhaling  While Kirby is inhaling there are always three randomly air particles at a time, if one of these reach Kirby a new one will be generated. By adjusting the lenght of inhaling the RN can be adjusted, it's also very limitive.

Swallowing  When Kirby swallows an enemy with a power-up sparkles will appear next to Kirby.

Attacking with certain power-ups  Some power-ups advance the RN multiple time due to random sparkles, this also counts for enemies with these power-ups. So killing enemies with these power-ups sooner or later can influence the RN.

Killing enemies  When an enemy gets killed, not inhaled, a sparkle will appear.

Enemy does an action  In cases an enemy is loaded the RNG will occasionally be called to determine a new action for that enemy.

See also

Game Resources  - we have resource pages for other games too!

Common Tricks  - tricks common to many games

Boss Fighting Guide  - tricks specific to boss fights

GameResources/NES/KirbysAdventure last edited by TASeditor  on 9/18/2016 6:35 AM

Page History

Latest diff

List referrers

View Source

&copy; 2026 - TASVideos v2.6-db6dfdb

Terms

API